Page 1

Ministry of Justice of Turkmenistan

Home Legal information Legal information Legal aid Notary Real Estate Central News Contacts FAQ

Criminal Code of Turkmenistan

About the letter
information
Last change

OF TURKMENISTAN

Until May 15, 2021

LAW

changes and
with additions

The institution that accepted the letter

Amendments to the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan and

Parliament of Turkmenistan

to make additions and to make it in a regular manner

Date of acceptance

about approval

10.05.2014

Type of document

(Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2010, No. 2, Article 28)

Codes of Turkmenistan

Article 1 Amendments and supplements to the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan shall be amended and approved as follows.

Article 2 The following should be considered as invalid:
Of March 26, 1998 "About modification and amendments to some legislative acts of Turkmenistan"
Part I of the Law of Turkmenistan;
Of Turkmenistan "About modification and additions to the Criminal code of Turkmenistan" of March 23, 2000
His law;
Adopted on December 19, 2000 "On Amendments and Addenda to Certain Legislative Acts of Turkmenistan"
Part V of the Law of Turkmenistan;
Of the Republic of Turkmenistan "About modification of the Criminal code of Turkmenistan" of December 14, 2002
His law;
The Law of Turkmenistan of June 14, 2003 "On Amendments to the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan";
The Law of Turkmenistan of October 21, 2003 "On Amendments to the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan";
Of March 16, 2004 "About modification and amendments to some legislative acts of Turkmenistan"
Part II of the Law of Turkmenistan;
Adopted on May 13, 2004 "On Abolition of Criminal Liability for Violation of the Law on Religious Organizations"
Article 2 of the Law of Turkmenistan;
Of the Republic of Turkmenistan "About modification of the Criminal code of Turkmenistan" of October 10, 2004
His law;
Adopted on October 25, 2004 "On Amendments and Addenda to Certain Legislative Acts of Turkmenistan"
Part I of the Law of Turkmenistan;
Of March 8, 2005 "About modification and amendments to the Criminal code of Turkmenistan"
The Law of Turkmenistan;
Of December 14, 2007 "About modification and amendments to some legislative acts of Turkmenistan"
Part VII of the Law of Turkmenistan;
Of June 25, 2008 "About modification and amendments to some legislative acts of Turkmenistan"
Part II of the Law of Turkmenistan;
"On Amendments to the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan and Recognition of Certain Laws of Turkmenistan as Invalidated"
Part I of the Law of Turkmenistan adopted on July 2, 2009;
"On Amendments to the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan and Recognition of Certain Laws of Turkmenistan as Invalidated"
Part I of the Law of Turkmenistan of August 15, 2009
Article 3 This Law shall enter into force on July 1, 2010.

Of Turkmenistan

Gurbanguly

President

Berdymukhammedov

Ashgabat.
May 10, 2010.
No. 104-IV.

OF TURKMENISTAN
CRIMINAL CODE

GENERAL PART

SECTION I. CRIME OF TURKMENISTAN
LEGALITY

CHAPTER 1 DUTIES AND PRINCIPLES OF CRIMINAL LAW

Article 1 Criminal legislation of Turkmenistan

(1) Criminal legislation of Turkmenistan is in accordance with the Constitution of Turkmenistan, generally recognized principles and norms of international law.
is based on and consists of this Code.
(2) Individual laws governing criminal liability are subject to the provisions of this Code.

Article 2 Functions of criminal law

(1) The criminal law of Turkmenistan includes the identity, rights and freedoms of citizens, the interests, property, property of society and the state,
public order, the independence of Turkmenistan, the constitutional structure and the legal status of neutrality, peace and humanity
protection of their safety against criminal offenses, as well as the prevention of crimes.
(2) To carry out these functions, the criminal legislation of Turkmenistan establishes the foundations and principles of criminal responsibility,
determines which acts are socially dangerous and that they are punishable by imprisonment and other offenses for which they are committed;
prescribes legal action.

Article 3 Principles of criminal law

(1) The criminal legislation of Turkmenistan is the rule of law, equality of citizens before the law, criminal responsibility, justice and humanity.
based on the principles of
(2) Whether the act is criminal, punishable by it, and other criminal consequences are determined by criminal law.
(3) A person's guilt is subject to criminal liability for actions (inaction) that have been identified, which have resulted only in adverse consequences.
(4) No one shall be held guilty of any penal offense on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offense, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
he shall not be held guilty of any penal offense on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offense, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
(5) The perpetrators shall be equal before the law and shall not be discriminated against by their gender, body color, nationality, language, property or position, religion,
beliefs, regardless of party affiliation, are subject to criminal liability.
(6) Punishment and other criminal remedies to be applied to the offender shall be fair, regardless of the gravity of the offense, its
must strictly comply with their circumstances and the identity of the culprit.
(7) Penalties and other criminal remedial measures applied to offenders may result in physical harm or human dignity.
cannot be discriminated against.
(8) No one may be held criminally liable for the same offense.

Article 4 The basis of criminal responsibility

Committing an act that contains all the features of a criminal offense provided for in the Criminal Code is the basis of criminal responsibility.
is.

CHAPTER 2 ACT OF CRIMINAL LAW
TIME AND SPACE

Article 5 The duration of the criminal law

(1) Whether the act is criminal and punishable shall be determined in accordance with the law in force at the time of the act.
(2) The time of the commission of the offense shall be considered the time of commencement of its consequences, but the liability shall be provided for in the Criminal Code.
in the cases established for the act of inaction (inaction), the time of the act (inaction) is considered.

Article 6 Criminal law enforcement

(1) A law that eliminates, mitigates, or otherwise improves the criminal liability of the offender.
its force is reversed, i.e., it applies to persons who have committed such acts before the enactment of this law, including those who have been punished or who have been punished,
but it also applies to people with a felony conviction. Determining that the act is criminal, aggravating the punishment, or imposing a human condition
the force of the deteriorating law does not move back.
(2) If the new criminal law facilitates the punishment of a person who commits a crime for his crime, the prescribed punishment shall be provided for in the new law.
subject to reduction in accordance with the limits laid down.

Article 7 Action of the criminal law on persons who have committed crimes in the territory of Turkmenistan

(1) Persons who have committed crimes in the territory of Turkmenistan shall be liable under the Criminal Law of Turkmenistan.
(2) the offenses committed in the territory of Turkmenistan on the territory of water or air are considered to have been committed in the territory of Turkmenistan;
is done. The validity of this Code also applies to crimes committed in the continental shelf and maritime economic zone of Turkmenistan.
(3) A person who has committed a crime in a ship registered in the port of Turkmenistan, in a ship outside the territory of Turkmenistan in water or air, if
It is liable under the Criminal Law of Turkmenistan, unless otherwise provided by the international agreement of Turkmenistan.
(4) When the offense is committed in the territory of two or more States, if the offense is committed in the territory of Turkmenistan or before it;
if taken, liability begins under the criminal law of Turkmenistan.
(5) The issue of criminal liability of diplomatic representatives of foreign states and other persons enjoying immunity,
norms of international law and international law of Turkmenistan in the case of a crime committed in the territory of Turkmenistan by those persons
resolved on the basis of agreements.

Article 8 Action of the criminal law on persons who have committed crimes outside the territory of Turkmenistan

(1) Citizens of Turkmenistan, as well as stateless persons permanently residing in Turkmenistan, are outside the territory of Turkmenistan,
When committing a crime provided for by the Criminal Law of Turkmenistan, if the responsibility for the act is the responsibility of the state within its territory.
provided for in the criminal law, and if those persons have not been convicted in a foreign state, the criminal law of Turkmenistan
are responsible for. In this case, it is beyond the scope of the penalty provided for in the law in force at the scene of the crime
the passing sentence cannot be prescribed.
(2) Foreign citizens, as well as persons permanently residing in Turkmenistan, stateless persons outside the territory of Turkmenistan
for the crime committed, if the crime is directed against Turkmenistan or its citizens, as well as the international
in the cases provided for in the agreements, if they have not been terminated in a foreign state and the crime is committed in the territory of Turkmenistan
if not prosecuted, is subject to liability under the criminal laws of Turkmenistan.

Article 9 Extradition of offenders

(1) Citizens of Turkmenistan who have committed crimes within the territory of a foreign state shall not be subject to extradition.
(2) Foreign citizens and stateless persons who have committed crimes outside the territory of Turkmenistan and reside in the territory of Turkmenistan;
International treaties to Turkmenistan, treaties, conventions and other international legal norms of Turkmenistan
may be extradited to a foreign state for prosecution or punishment in accordance with.

SECTION II. CRIME

CHAPTER 3. A WORLD CALLED CRIMINALITY
LEVELS AND TYPES

Article 10 The concept of crime

Dangerous (action or inaction) damage or damage to objects protected by criminal law
is considered a publicly dangerous crime.

Article 11 Levels of crimes

(1) Depending on the severity of the offense and the nature of the offense, the offenses provided for in this Code are of a minor, moderate,
divided into serious and particularly serious crimes.
(2) He shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years in accordance with the Criminal Code for crimes committed as minor offenses.
willful and reckless acts provided for in the form of deprivation are considered.
(3) The maximum penalty under the Criminal Code for an offense committed as an offense of moderate severity is up to eight years.
willful and reckless acts provided for in the form of
(4) The maximum penalty under the Criminal Code for an offense committed as a felony is a term of imprisonment of up to fifteen years.
willful and reckless acts provided for in the form of
(5) Penalties of up to twenty-five years in criminal law for offenses committed as particularly serious offenses.
are considered intentional offenses.

Article 12 Finished and unfinished crime

(1) If the act committed by a person has all the symptoms of a criminal offense provided for in the criminal law, the offense
considered to be finished.
(2) Preparing for a crime or committing a crime is considered an unfinished crime.
(3) Responsibility for the preparation or commission of a crime shall be terminated by reference to Articles 13 and 14 of this Code.
as in the case of a crime, it occurs under that article of the Criminal Code.

Article 13 Preparation for the crime

(1) For the search, preparation or use of means and tools, for the purpose of communicating or committing a crime;
deliberate creation of other conditions, unless the crime is not brought to an end in cases where it does not depend on the person, the preparation for the crime
considered.
(2) Criminal liability falls solely on the preparation for an aggravated felony, a felony, or a felony.

Article 14 Committing a crime

Intentional action or inaction aimed at direct crime, in cases where the offense is not related to the person
is considered a criminal offense if it is not brought to an end.

Article 15 A protracted crime

(1) As a protracted crime, the symptoms of the act are the same as those provided for in an article or part of the criminal law.
committing an act is considered an act that lasts indefinitely.
(2) The commencement of an offense that delays the committing of a protracted crime or the occurrence of an event that prevents it from continuing;
is considered to have expired.

Article 16 Ongoing crime

(1) An ongoing offense shall be deemed to be the only offense provided for in an article or part of an article of the Criminal Code.
is considered to have consisted of two or more of the same acts that surround the intention and have a common purpose.
(2) An ongoing offense shall be deemed to have ended from the moment the last criminal act is completed.

Article 17 Repetition of crimes

(1) Two or more of the offenses provided for in an article or part of a Special Part of this Code;
the perpetration of most is considered a recurrence of crimes. Provided for in various articles of the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan
committing two or more crimes only in the cases specified in the Special Part of the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan
can be considered a recurrence of them.
(2) If the person who committed them for previous offenses is exempt from criminal liability or punishment, or in the law for those offenses;
a felony is not considered recurring if the conviction is dismissed or dismissed on its own in the prescribed manner.

Article 18 Total number of crimes

(1) Two or more of the offenses provided for in various articles or parts of the Criminal Code;
if one of them is not convicted, the total number of offenses is considered.
(2) In cases where a person has committed an offense under two or more of the provisions of the Criminal Code;
considered to be the total number of offenses.
(3) If the offense is provided for in a general and special rule, the offense shall not have a total and the liability shall be in accordance with the special rule.
falls.
(4) In the aggregate of the offenses, the person shall be liable for each offense committed under the relevant article and part of the article of the Criminal Code.
attracts.

Article 19 Crime Residue

(1) The commission of a felony by a person convicted of a felony for a premeditated crime is a felony conviction.
considered.
(2) The recidivism of offenses shall be deemed dangerous in the following cases:
(a) in the case of an intentional crime by a person sentenced to two years' imprisonment for a premeditated crime;
(b) When a person has been convicted of a felony with intent to commit a felony or a felony.
(3) The recidivism of offenses is considered particularly dangerous in the following cases:
(a) If a person who has previously been convicted of a felony of a felony or misdemeanor is sentenced to imprisonment three or more times, he shall
when he is imprisoned for a crime he has committed intentionally;
(b) If he or she has previously been convicted of a particularly serious crime by a person convicted of a felony.
(4) The offense of conviction for offenses committed under the age of eighteen years, as well as the dismissal or self-incrimination in the manner prescribed by Article 81 of this Code.
a conviction for dismissal is not taken into account when recidivism is considered.

CHAPTER 4. CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY
RELATED PEOPLE

Article 20 General conditions of criminal responsibility

Criminal liability shall apply to a person who has reached the age prescribed by this Code.

Article 21 Age at which criminal liability falls

(1) Criminal liability falls on persons who have attained the age of sixteen by the time they commit a crime.
(2) When persons between the ages of fourteen and sixteen years of age commit an intentional homicide when they commit a crime (Article 101), it is deliberately serious
for injury (Article 107), for intentional infliction of moderate to severe health (Article 108), for rape (Article 134),
for theft (Article 227), for robbery (Article 230), for robbery (Article 231), for intimidation (232)
article), for the illegal possession of a vehicle by a stranger (Article 234), for intentional destruction or damage to property (235
second part of the article) for theft or intimidation of weapons, ammunition, explosives and explosives (291
substance), illegally fabricated, processed, acquired, stored for the purpose of selling drugs or psychotropic substances,
for transport, dispatch (Article 292), for theft or intimidation of drugs or psychotropic substances (Article 294)
subject to criminal liability.

Article 22 Mental well-being

A person who understands and guides the nature and significance of his actions (inaction) at the time of committing a crime is said to be mentally sound.
considered.

Article 23 Not in the right place

(1) The nature and significance of their actions (inaction) when committing an offense under the Criminal Code, their
incapacitated or mentally ill, temporarily mentally ill or mentally ill, unable to comprehend socially dangerous
a person who is unable to control them as a result of a disability is not subject to criminal liability.
(2) A person who commits an offense under the Criminal Code in a state of insanity shall be prosecuted by the court in accordance with this Code.
compulsory medical measures may be prescribed.

Article 24 The criminal responsibility of mentally retarded people in mental development

He was mentally sound at the time of the crime, but had difficulty understanding the nature and significance of his actions (inaction).
a person who has difficulty in controlling them due to mental retardation or mental illness is subject to criminal liability.
belongs to The above circumstances are taken into account when determining the type and amount of punishment.

Article 25 Criminal liability of people who have committed a crime under the influence of alcohol

(1) A person who commits a crime while intoxicated as a result of the use of alcohol, drugs or other substances in a series of fumes
subject to liability.
(2) The causes of intoxication, the degree of intoxication, and its effect on crime shall be taken into account when sentencing.

CHAPTER 5. DAY

Article 26 Sin and its forms

(1) Sin, which is expressed in the form of intention or carelessness, is the conscious-willful mental attitude of a person to the crime he is committing.
(2) Only a person who commits a socially dangerous act intentionally or recklessly may be considered guilty of a crime.
(3) An act of negligence is considered a crime only in cases where it is expressly provided by the criminal law.

Article 27 Intentional crime

(1) A publicly committed act that is committed directly or indirectly is considered an intentional crime.
(2) If a person who commits a crime is aware of the socially dangerous nature of his or her actions or inaction, he or she is socially dangerous.
if he foresaw the consequences, if he wanted them to exist, or if he foresaw the inevitability of the consequences, the crime was intentional.
considered to have been done.
(3) If a person who commits a crime is aware of the socially dangerous nature of his or her actions or inaction, his or her publicly dangerous behavior
If he foresaw the consequences, he did not want them to, but if he wisely allowed them to have such consequences, or if he ignored them, the crime was indirect.
is considered to have been done with.

Article 28 A crime committed by negligence

(1) A society that has committed dangerous acts of self-reliance or aggression that has had dangerous consequences for the public;
is considered a crime committed inadvertently.
(2) If the offender realizes that his or her actions or omissions are dangerous to the public, the public
if he foresaw the possibility of the consequences, but considered them lightly to prevent them, on the basis of self-confidence
is considered a crime committed.
(3) If the offender does not realize that his or her actions or omissions are dangerous to the public, the public
if they cannot foresee the possibility of consequences, even if they have the necessary attention and vigilance, they must foresee and anticipate them.
a possible felony is considered a felony.

Article 29 Responsibility for a crime committed in combination with intent and negligence (dual form of guilt)

(1) The second form of the offense is intentional and reckless in respect of the consequences of such a crime;
characterized. Such a crime is considered to be intentional in its entirety.
(2) If the law associates the consequences of a felony with a more severe penalty, a person may be liable to such consequences.
if he cannot foresee the possibility of being, but must see or foresee, or if the person is to be their
if he foresee the possibility, but considers it easy to prevent them, it is only a crime for such results in such a case.
may be responsible.

Article 30 Innocent Harm (Accident)

(1) If a person does not realize that the act is dangerous to the public or that his or her actions (inaction) are socially dangerous
if he does not foresee the possibility of the consequences, and if he cannot foresee or foresee the circumstances of the case,
considered innocent.
(2) Although the offender has foreseen the possibility of socially dangerous consequences, his or her psychophysiological
as a result of the inability of their properties to comply with extreme conditions or neurological-psychological weights, so
the act is considered innocent.

Article 31 Legal and real error

(1) If a person commits an act provided for in a criminal law and does not understand that it is illegal and cannot understand the circumstances of the case,
it does not apply to criminal liability.
(2) If a person has committed an offense under the Criminal Code and is sincere in respect of the actual circumstances surrounding the composition of that offense;
if he is wrong, he cannot be held liable for that act intentionally.
(3) If the law associates a more severe punishment with the existence of certain real circumstances, but the person who committed the offense is pure in respect of those circumstances;
if he has erroneously made a mistake, he cannot be held liable.

CHAPTER 6. DO NOT PARTICIPATE IN THE CRIME

Article 32 The notion of not participating in crime together

The deliberate co-operation of two or more persons in the commission of a felony is considered to be a co-conspiracy.

Article 33 Types of partners

(1) The perpetrator, the perpetrator, and the accomplice of the offender are considered to be the accomplices of the crime, along with the perpetrator.
(2) who is directly involved in the commission of a crime by a person or other persons (co-perpetrators) who has committed a crime directly, as well as by law;
considered to be the perpetrator of a crime committed by the use of other persons who are not subject to criminal liability by force of law;
is done.
(3) The organization that organized or directed the commission of the offense, as well as the organized crime team, or
a person who creates or leads a criminal association is considered a criminal organizer.
(4) A person who is willing to commit a crime by consent, intimidation, intimidation, or other means is considered to be a provocateur.
(5) By giving advice, instructions, by giving notice, by means or means of the offense, or by removing obstacles,
the person who assisted in the crime, as well as the perpetrator, the weapon or other means of committing the crime, the traces of the crime, or
a person who has previously promised to conceal the proceeds of a crime, as well as to prevent the acquisition or placement of such items;
the promised person is considered an ally.

Article 34 Preliminary language group of people, organized group or criminal association
to be done

(1) If two or more persons are present at the preliminary hearing on a joint offense, the preliminary hearing shall be held.
considered a crime committed by a group of people.
(2) If a crime is committed by a stable group of persons who have been previously united to commit one or more offenses, the criminal organization
considered to have been made by the group.
(3) A stable, cohesive, governing body created for the commission of serious and particularly serious crimes by persons who have been pre-assembled.
if committed, the offense is deemed to have been committed by a criminal association.
(4) A person who has established or chaired a criminal association has established and chaired a criminal association, as well as
if he is surrounded by his intentions, he is responsible for all crimes committed by the union. The other of the criminal union
the participants are liable for their participation and the commission of the crime in which they participated.
(5) The commission of a crime by a group of pre-linguistic persons, an organized group or a criminal association shall be subject to the provisions of this Code.
on the basis of and within the limits set by it, leading to more severe punishment.

Article 35 Partner Liability

(1) The responsibility of the partners is determined by the degree and nature of each of their involvement in the crime.
(2) The co-executors shall be liable for a crime committed together under a clause of the Criminal Code .
(3) The liability of the organizer, the provost and the wound shall be the same as that of the perpetrator, in accordance with Article 33 of this Code.
applies to that Article of the Special Part of the Code.
(4) The remaining partners of the offense shall be charged by the executor if they have not been brought to the end of the offense by the executor under circumstances beyond their control.
they are responsible for their involvement in the preparation of the crime and for the conspiracy to commit the crime.

Article 36 Execution Execution

Committing an offense by the executor, which does not cover the intentions of the other partners, is considered to be the perpetrator's exception.
Other partners are not subject to criminal liability in the event of an executive default.

CHAPTER 7. THAT THE ACT IS CRIMINAL
SITUATIONS

Article 37 Necessary protection

(1) If an attacker threatens to use life-threatening violence or the life of another person or to commit such violence directly
the rights and laws of the individual, the defense, the other person, society and the state through any harm to the perpetrator.
the protection of their interests is not a crime and is considered lawful.
(2) Not related to violence that is dangerous to the life of the defender or another person, or related to the threat of such violence;
protection from aggression, if it is not allowed to go beyond the necessary defenses in this case, i.e., to the nature and danger of the offense
if intentional misconduct is not allowed, it is considered lawful.
(3) Notwithstanding the opportunity to escape abuse or seek assistance from other persons or authorities;
the right to the necessary protection applies.

Article 38 Damage when the offender is detained

(1) When the offender is detained to prevent him or her from being brought before the authorities and committing new offenses, if he or she resists
and it is not possible to detain such a person by other means and thus it is not permissible to go beyond the necessary measures for this.
if so, it is not a crime to harm him.
(2) The nature of the act committed by the detainee, and the nature of the act committed by the detainee, as to the excess of the measures necessary to detain the offender;
their inadequacy to the danger and conditions of detention, when the person is in extreme need of a situation without the need for it;
open damage is considered. Exceeding such limits leads to liability only in the event of intentional damage.

Article 39 Bialach need

(1) The detriment of the rights protected in the event of a need, i.e. the life, health, or well-being of that person or other persons;
to eliminate the threat that directly threatens their rights and legitimate interests, the interests of society and the state, if that threat
if in other cases it cannot be eliminated by other means and in this case the deviation from the limits of the need is not allowed, then
such an act is not a crime.
(2) It is open to the elimination of the threat and the threat posed by it, its nature and extent, as a departure from the limits of the need for bialach.
Inadequate harm is considered when more harm is done to the rights of the protected person than is prevented. That's right
delinquency leads to liability only in the event of intentional damage.

Article 40 Physical and mental coercion

(1) The action (inaction) of a person who has infringed on the rights protected as a result of physical or mental coercion, if he so
if he cannot control his actions as a result of coercion, such action is not a crime.
(2) Liability for damages to rights protected as a result of physical or mental coercion in other cases.
The matter shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of Article 39 of this Code.

Article 41 Risk based

(1) Damage to rights-protected interests in the event of objectively based risk to achieve a socially beneficial purpose;
there is no crime.
(2) If the intended purpose cannot be achieved by non-risk-taking actions and the person who committed the risk is protected by law;
the risk is deemed to have been justified if it has taken the necessary measures to prevent harm to the benefit.
(3) If the risk is identified by a threat to the health or life of the person, an environmental disaster or a public disaster
if it is related, the risk is not considered justified.

Article 42 Execute the command

(1) Actions in the prescribed manner and in compliance with the relevant form, for the performance of a mandatory order or other instruction for him or her;
Page 2

it is not a crime to harm lawfully protected interests by the perpetrator.
(2) Damage to a legally protected interest as a result of an illegal order or other instruction, if the person
removes responsibility if it does not make sense of its illegal nature. In this case, the order was made to carry out an illegal order or instruction
the person responsible for the act is responsible for such an order or instruction.
(3) Failure to comply with a specific criminal order or other instruction may result in criminal liability, but may result in a mitigating circumstance.
can be recognized as a situation.
(4) Failure to comply with an expressly illegal or criminal order or other instruction removes criminal liability.

SECTION III. PUNISHMENT

CHAPTER 8. WHAT IS A PUNISHMENT, ITS OBJECTIVES AND TYPES

Article 43 The concept of punishment and its purposes

(1) Punishment for a felony punishable by imprisonment. As a coercive measure of the state, the punishment, the crime, established by the judgment of the court
applies to a person convicted of a crime and deprives him or her of his or her rights and freedoms, as provided for in criminal law.
consists of deprivation or limitation.
(2) In order to restore criminal justice, as well as to rehabilitate a convicted person, to prevent the commission of new crimes.
used.

Article 44 Types of punishment

(1) Types of punishment are considered to be:
a) impose a duty to rectify the damage;
b) a fine;
c) deprivation of the right to work in a particular position or to perform a particular job;
d) deprivation of state awards, military and other titles;
e) corrective actions;
(e) the obligation to live in a particular place;
f) free receipt of property;
g) restrictions on freedom;
h) imprisonment.
(2) Military service may be applied to military service in the form of restrictions on military service and detention in the military correctional unit.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 45 Basic and additional penalties

(1) Correctional work, restrictions on military service, detention in a military-correctional unit, imprisonment are the only basic punishments
used as.
(2) To impose, to impose a fine, to perform a certain duty, or to perform a certain duty, to repair the damage caused;
deprivation of liberty, imposition of duty to live in a particular place, restriction of liberty as the main, as well as additional penalties
used.
(3) Deprivation of state awards, military and special titles, other names, and free acquisition of property as additional penalties
used.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 46 The burden of repairing the damage is on you

(1) The burden of correcting the damage is material, both materially and morally.
consists in compensating for the loss and apologizing to the public for the victim.
(2) Punishment in the form of imposing a duty to repair the damage, when the amount of the damage caused by the court, the actual amount of its repair.
to recover damages from the convict, taking into account the possibility of and the identity of the offender;
can be marked if it is recognized as capable.
(3) If the convict refuses to perform the duty of correcting the damage, the court shall impose that penalty or
or by any article of this Part of the present Code, the case may be replaced by corrective action within the prescribed time limits. If you punish
If the specified forms are not provided for in the article sanctions, then they are the minimum specified in Articles 47 and 50 of this Code.
is set in the amount.

Article 47 Fine

(1) The fine shall be imposed by the legislation of Turkmenistan until the moment of sentencing, imposed within the limits provided for by this Code.
is to pay in the amount corresponding to a certain amount of the average monthly wage.
(2) The fine shall be fixed at the rate of five to two hundred per cent of the average monthly wage.
(3) The amount of the fine shall be determined by the court in view of the gravity of the offense committed, taking into account the property condition of the convict.
(4) As an additional penalty, if it is considered as an additional penalty only in the case where it determines the direct liability for the relevant offense.
may be prescribed only in such cases if provided.
(5) In the event of a willful refusal to pay the fine prescribed by the court as the principal penalty, the court shall
may be replaced by the types of penalties specified in the relevant article of the Special Part of this Code or in the relevant part thereof.
(6) Penalties for persons who do not have their own income, as well as for conscripts who serve in the conscription.
not used.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 26, 2010 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2010, No. 4, 72Article).

Article 48 Deprivation of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity

(1) Deprivation of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity, including in the civil service, local self-government
to hold a certain position in the governing bodies, in enterprises of any form of ownership, or in public associations, or
consists in the prohibition of engaging in a particular professional or other activity.
(2) Deprivation of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity is punishable by a term of one to five years.
for a term of one to three years as an additional penalty.
(3) Deprivation of the right to hold a particular position or to engage in a particular activity, if the nature of the offender's offense
and taking into account his or her identity, whether or not he or she is employed in a particular position or a particular professional or other occupation.
In the event that the court considers it impossible to retain the right to engage in it, it is a form of punishment for the relevant offense.
may be imposed as an additional penalty even if it is not specified as.
(4) When this penalty is established as an additional penalty for fines and correctional labor, as well as in a conditional sentence, its term shall be legally binding.
begins to be calculated from the moment of entry. This punishment is in addition to imprisonment or sent to a military correctional facility.
when appointed, his term shall be calculated from the moment of completion of the principal sentence.

Article 49 Deprivation of state awards, military or other titles

(1) In the event of a conviction for a serious or particularly serious offense, a person with a military or other name shall be subject to the same jurisdiction as the court.
can be deprived of a name.
(2) an honorary title or military title awarded to the Order, Medal of Turkmenistan or conferred by the President of Turkmenistan, or
the identity of the culprit when a person of another name is convicted of a serious or particularly serious crime, when the court rules;
Deprivation of a convicted person of an order, medal, honorary title, military name or other name, taking into account the information on
resolves the issue of the appropriateness of the proposal to the President of Turkmenistan.

Article 50 Correctional work

(1) The correctional work shall be scheduled for a period of two to two years, and in accordance with the judgment of the court, the corrective action shall be carried out by the person of the convict.
held at the place or other place of residence of the convicted person. Judgment from the earnings of a person convicted of corrective action
in the amount set out in the judgment, in the amount of five to twenty per cent of the income, withheld from the state.
remains.
(2) Correctional work for persons incapable of labor, persons under the age of sixteen, pregnant women and women with children under the age of three years,
not applicable to people of retirement age, as well as military personnel, students, and students.
(3) In the event of a negligent refusal to be in correctional proceedings, in lieu of the executing authority and the criminal penalty;
by a joint motion of the supervising authority, the court shall release the unfinished period of remedial action.
one day of imprisonment may be replaced by a sentence of imprisonment in the form of three days of correctional labor.
(As amended by the Laws of Turkmenistan of March 26, 2011 and June 8, 2019 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2011, No. 3, Article 55; 2019, No. 2-3, Article 27).

Article 51 Restrictions on military service

(1) This Code shall apply in the event of termination of service to military personnel consisting of officers, as well as to military servicemen on duty.
In the cases provided for by the law, the restriction on military service is applied for a period of two to two years, as well as the judicial proceedings.
in lieu of imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, taking into account the circumstances and identity of the convicted person;
is used in the event that it is deemed expedient to apply the term limit on military service.
(2) The restriction on military service shall be deducted from the monetary income of the convicted person in the amount determined by the judgment of the court, twenty-five per cent.
up to a percentage of the money is deducted and transferred to the state income. The convict is serving a restrictive sentence on military service
during his tenure, his military name could not be elevated, and his sentence was extended to give him another military name and a long period of service.
is not counted as a term of service for retirement.

1
Article
51 The burden of living in a particular place

1
consists of.
(2) The imposition of the duty to reside in a particular place is two to five years to a maximum of five years and an additional penalty as the primary punishment.
from one to five years.
(3) About persons under the age of eighteen before the crime, as well as persons with disabilities of the first and second groups, persons of retirement age,
The burden of living in a particular place does not apply to pregnant women and women with children under the age of eight.
(4) A person who has reluctantly refused to serve the penalty of living in a particular place and must live for the same purpose;
in the event of his departure, the joint agency of the penitentiary and the institution that monitors the execution of the criminal sentence shall
at its discretion, the court, in its determination, sent the correctional authority to sentence the person in the form of imprisonment.
entitled to send. In this case, the time spent in the places of compulsory residence is one of the days of compulsory imprisonment in a certain place.
is considered equal to the day. In order to avoid punishment, the time left for the place of compulsory residence is in a certain place.
does not take into account the mandatory shelf life.
(5) If a person is convicted of a crime and sentenced to life in a certain place, the court shall punish him or her in accordance with the provisions of Article 64 of this Code.
notes.

Article 52 Getting property for free

(1) The free acquisition of property shall be the property of the convicted person, which is privately owned and acquired by the law in a manner prohibited by law.
consists of compulsory free admission.
(2) The free acquisition of property shall be determined for the most serious, serious and particularly serious offenses committed for the purpose of greed, and it shall be
may be established in cases provided for in criminal law.
(3) What is required for a convicted person or his or her dependents in accordance with the list given in the Annex to this Code.
does not apply to free admission.

1
Article
52 Restrictions on freedom

(1) Restrictions on liberty include the imposition of obligations imposed by a court to restrict the freedom of the convicted person.
and he shall serve a sentence of one year to five years in the place of residence of the convict without isolation from society.
is involved in the control of the institution. He may be sentenced to a term of less than one year if other penalties are replaced by a restriction of liberty.
By imposing a sentence in the form of restriction of liberty, the court shall issue a permanent residency without notice to the executing authority,
not to change the place of work and study, not to go to certain places, not to leave their place of permanent residence in their free time from school and work,
is obliged to carry out its obligations not to go elsewhere without permission from the penitentiary. Work to restrict judicial freedom
which helps the victim to recover: from alcoholism, drug addiction or psychoactive addiction, sexually transmitted diseases
it can also impose treatment on illness, financial support for the family, and fulfillment of other obligations.
(2) Freedom of the judiciary in the event of a premeditated refusal to serve a sentence by a person convicted of restricting his liberty;
may replace the indefinite period of limitation by deprivation of liberty for that period. At the same time, punishment is one of deprivation of liberty
the day is set at the expense of one day of freedom restriction.
(3) Restrictions on freedom of expression for persons who have been convicted of a felony of a serious and particularly grave offense as a punishment, military
cannot be applied to servants, as well as to persons who do not have a permanent residence.
(4) During the period of imprisonment in the form of imprisonment, the court shall determine the conduct of the person exercising control over the conduct of the convict.
may terminate, in whole or in part, the obligations previously incurred upon the termination of the proceedings under the proposal. ”
1
The Code should
include 52 articles in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.

Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77.

Article 53 Deprivation

(1) Deprivation of liberty is to keep the convict in solitary confinement or by placing him in prison.
(2) Deprivation of liberty is punishable by a term of six to fifteen years. Imprisonment for particularly serious crimes
appointed for a term of twenty-five years.
(3) The terms of deprivation of liberty shall be determined in part by the total number of offenses and the total number of convictions.
or, in the case of full inclusion, the maximum term of imprisonment is more than fifteen years, and for particularly serious crimes more than twenty-five years.
cannot be.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of March 20, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 1, 29Article).

Article 54 Detention in the military-correctional unit

(1) In the case of conscripts who have served in the conscription, if they have committed a military offense under the Criminal Code, they shall have three
detention in the military-correctional unit for a period of two to two months, as well as information on the nature of the crime and the identity of the offender.
the information was taken to court in the military correctional unit in the form of imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years.
if they testify that they can be replaced by detention, they are to be detained in the military-correctional unit.
(2) When detained in a military-correctional unit instead of deprivation of liberty, the period of detention in this unit shall be one day at a time.
is determined.

Article 55 is repealed.

CHAPTER 9. TYPE OF THE PENALTY AND AMOUNT
APPLICATION

Article 56 General grounds for sentencing

(1) A person who has been convicted of a crime by a court of law shall, subject to the provisions of the General Part of this Code,
Penalties are determined within the limits established by the relevant article of the Special Part of the Code.
(2) A more severe form of punishment for a crime than provided for in the relevant article of the Special Part of this Code, Article 63 of this Code.
and may be appointed under Article 64, by the total number of offenses and by the total number of convictions. For the crime committed
the grounds for establishing a lighter form of punishment than provided for in criminal law shall be determined by Article 59 of this Code.
(3) The nature and gravity of the offense, the purpose and tone of the offense, the consequences,
circumstances that facilitate and aggravate liability, the identity of the offender, as well as the fact that the prescribed punishment carries the punishment of the offender;
it is then intended to re-adapt to the normal conditions of life and its impact on the living conditions of its family.
(4) A fair punishment shall be imposed on the offender and shall be necessary and sufficient for his recovery.

Article 57 Circumstances that facilitate accountability

(1) The following circumstances are considered to be mitigating circumstances:
(a) the commission of a serious minor offense for the first time;
(b) the offender has not reached the age of majority;
c) pregnancy;
(d) The defendant has a large family or minor children;
(d) the commission of a crime due to circumstances of life;
f) under the influence of a threatening, intimidating or coercive crime or due to material, service dependence or other dependence;
if committed, as well as in the event of a criminal or illegal order or execution of an order;
f) under the influence of strong emotional excitement caused by the use of violence, malicious humiliation, or other illegal acts of the victim;
if convicted as a result;
g) in case of violation of the legal provisions of the necessary defense, in the case of detention of the offender, in the event of an acute need, reasonable
risk offender;
h) retardation under the influence of mental illness or mental retardation, in the absence of mental retardation
if committed;
i) if the victim's actions or immorality led to the commission of a crime;
(j) In the event of a confession, the discovery of a crime, the revelation of other participants in the crime, the commission of a crime;
active assistance in the search for property;
ž) the provision of medical and other assistance to the victim directly following the commission of the crime, both materially and morally;
voluntary compensation or compensation for damages, other actions aimed at correcting the damage caused to the victim.
(2) If the situation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is in the relevant article of the criminal law on liability for a crime
if provided, that situation cannot be reconsidered as a mitigating circumstance.
(3) When imposing a sentence, the circumstances not provided for in the first part of this Article may also be taken into account as mitigating circumstances.

Article 58 Situations that aggravate liability

(1) The following are recognized as aggravating circumstances:
a) recidivism, recurrence of crimes, committing crimes in the form of occupations;
(b) the serious consequences of the offense;
c) committing a crime without preliminary speaking as two or more persons, by a group of persons on preliminary speaking,
committing a crime as part of an organized group or criminal association;
(d) has been particularly active in the commission of a crime;
e) persons who are known to be guilty or are in a state of intoxication as a result of mental illness, as well as
and criminal prosecution of minors;
f) committing a crime politically, socially, nationally, ethnically, by skin color, or out of religious hatred or hostility;
(f) The purpose of the offense is to avenge a person's lawful actions, as well as to conceal or facilitate the commission of another crime;
to be done with;
(g) A crime has been committed against a woman whose pregnancy is clearly known to the offender, as well as in a young child, in another vulnerable or vulnerable state;
committing a crime against the rest of the people or against a person who is dependent on the culprit;
(h) Committing a crime with special cruelty, ridicule or torture or torture of his or her loved ones;
i) the commission of a crime by the use of a weapon or by physical or mental violence;
(j) By taking advantage of the conditions of the state of emergency, natural or other social disasters, as well as public
committing a crime in the event of an offense;
ž) the commission of a crime against a person performing a public or public duty;
k) if the crime was committed in a generally dangerous manner;
l) committing a crime with a selfish motive.
(2) If the circumstances referred to in the first part of this Article are based on the liability for the offense committed by the relevant article of this Code;
if it is provided for in the relevant article, that situation cannot be re-registered as a aggravating circumstance.
(3) When imposing a sentence, depending on the circumstances of the case, the circumstances listed in the first part of this article aggravate the liability.
the court has the right not to consider it a circumstance.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Article 59 Assigning a lighter sentence than the penalty provided for the crime committed

1) The purposes and evidence of the act, the attitude of the offender, his conduct at the time of the commission of the crime or after the completion of the offense, and his conduct;
other circumstances that significantly reduce the level of social risk of the act, as well as the group of the perpetrator of the crime;
in the event of special circumstances related to the active assistance in the detection of the crime committed:
(a) The offender may be punished by a penalty less than the limit provided for in the relevant article of the Criminal Code, or the court may
may prescribe a lighter form of punishment than intended;
(b) The court may not apply the additional penalty provided for as a mandatory penalty.
(2) Certain mitigating circumstances, as well as those referred to in Article 57 of this Code, shall be recognized as entirely exceptional circumstances.
can be done.

Article 60 Assignment of punishment for unfinished crime

(1) In determining the punishment for an unfinished crime, the circumstances under which the offense was not committed shall be taken into account.
is caught.
(2) Penalty preparation for a crime is a more severe form of punishment provided for a crime terminated in the relevant article of the criminal law.
may not exceed half the amount.
(3) Punishment for criminal conspiracy is more severe than the penalty provided for in a crime terminated in the relevant article of the Criminal Code.
may not exceed three-quarters of the volume of the form.

Article 61 Establishment of a penalty for a joint crime

(1) When determining the punishment for a joint offense, the nature of the person's involvement in the commission of the offense and, in fact, to what extent
involvement, the significance of that involvement in order to achieve the purpose of the crime, the nature and extent of the damage inflicted or inflicted;
its effect is taken into account.
(2) A mitigating or aggravating circumstance related to the conduct and identity of one of the partners shall be considered only when the participant is sentenced.
is assumed.

Article 62 Assignment of punishment in case of relapse

(1) In the case of a recidivism, in the case of a dangerous recidivism and in the case of a particularly dangerous recidivism, the previous punishment, the corrective effect, is sufficient
the number, nature, severity and consequences of the offenses committed, as well as the nature and severity of the new offenses
and the results are taken into account.
(2) The maximum amount of the appropriate form of punishment provided for by the criminal law for the offense committed in the receipt.
should not be less than half; higher penalties provided for a crime committed in a dangerous recidivism;
should not be less than two-thirds, higher than the maximum penalty for a crime committed in a particularly dangerous recidivism.
should not be less than three-quarters of the volume.
(3) In the event of an exception, in the event of a recidivism, in a dangerous recidivism, and in the event of special circumstances, provided for in Article 59 of this Code.
in the case of a dangerous recidivism, the penalty shall be imposed without regard to the restrictions provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article.

Article 63 Establishment of punishment by the total number of offenses

(1) The total number of offenses shall be set aside separately for each offense.
(2) If the total number of offenses includes a less serious or moderately serious offense, the less severe punishment
a final sentence is imposed by encompassing the sentence or by partial or complete inclusion of the sentence. Penalties in such cases
when combined, the final penalty may not exceed the maximum penalty provided for the most serious of the offenses committed.
(3) If the total amount of the offense committed is aggravated by a serious or particularly serious offense, the punishment shall be in part or in full.
the final penalty is set by adding. In doing so, the final penalty in the form of imprisonment is the maximum number of offenses committed.
cannot exceed the maximum penalty provided for pain.
(4) Additional penalties may be added to the main penalty. When the final additional penalty is added in part or in full, this Code
May not exceed the maximum term or amount established by the general part for that type of punishment.
(5) If the convicted person commits another crime before the first trial is rendered after the sentencing of the case.
if convicted, the penalty is set according to the same rules. In this case, the sentence imposed on the first sentence is given
is considered to be the expiration date of the sentence.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 64 Determination of punishment by the total number of sentences

(1) When a sentence is imposed on the total sum of the sentences, the penalty imposed under the last sentence shall be imposed on the previous sentence.
the unfinished part is added in whole or in part.
(2) The final sentence on the total sum of the sentences, if it is less than sending to the military-correctional unit or imprisonment
in the case of a higher term or amount established by the General Part of this Code for these types of punishment.
is not.
(3) The final sentence in the form of deprivation of liberty on the basis of the total amount of the sentence, the offense for the offense under the final sentence;
may exceed the maximum term of imprisonment provided for in the law, but for fifteen years, especially for offenses under sentences
if a crime is committed, it shall not be more than twenty-five years.
(4) The final sentence of the total sentence shall be less than the penalty for the newly committed offense, as well as the previous sentence.
should be more than the unfinished portion of the penalty.
(5) The imposition of additional penalties on him when imposing a penalty on the totality of the sentences shall be subject to the provisions of Article 63 of this Code.
is carried out in accordance with the rules provided by the section.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of March 20, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 1, 29Article).

Article 65 The procedure for determining their terms when penalties are added

(1) On the day of deprivation of liberty when the penalties are added to the total sum of the offenses and the total sum of the sentences.
the following are appropriate:
a) one day detention in a military-correctional unit;
b) one day of the obligation to live in a particular place;
c) three days of remedial action or military service restrictions.
(2) To impose on the duty of correcting the damage, to impose a fine, to seize the property for free, from state rewards, military or other
punishment in the form of deprivation of title, as well as deprivation of the right to hold a particular position or to engage in a particular occupation
incarceration, detention in a military-correctional unit, restrictions on military service, or when combined with corrective action, they
performed independently.

Article 66 Calculation of sentences and registration of sentences

(1) Deprivation of right to work or service in a particular position, correctional work, military service
restrictions, detention in a military-correctional unit, imposition of a duty to live in a certain place, terms of imprisonment in months and
calculated in years.
(2) When changing or adding to the penalties referred to in the first part of this Article, as well as taking into account the penalties, the deadlines
can be considered.
(3) During the period of detention, preliminary investigation, and trial, two days of daily detention.
one day of detention or one day of detention two days of imposing a duty to live in a particular place or one day of detention
the term of imprisonment is calculated at the expense of two days of detention in the military-correctional unit.
(4) In custody prior to the entry into force of a sentence established by a court judgment for a crime committed abroad.
one day is considered a day when he completes his sentence in the form of detention and imprisonment.
(5) The detainee shall be fined, deprived of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity.
in the case of a sentence of imprisonment in the form of a sentence, taking into account the period of detention, the court shall facilitate the sentence imposed or
releases punishment.
(6) When a person convicted of a correctional offense is in custody, he or she shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment established by a court sentence.
the day is considered to be three days of correctional work.

Article 67 Determining the type of correctional facility for those sentenced to imprisonment

(1) Fulfillment of the sentence for convicts for a willful crime shall be established in the form of deprivation of liberty as follows:
(a) Men convicted of willful imprisonment for the first time for a felony of a serious or medium gravity;
men who have reached the age of majority and have been sentenced to imprisonment after committing a crime, as well as for the first time intentionally
Women convicted of crimes committed, or in cases of recidivism, or in the case of recidivism, are sentenced to imprisonment.
in regular correctional facilities;
(b) For the first time, a felony conviction for a serious or especially serious offense has been sentenced, or a recidivism, or a felony;
convicted of recidivism and sentenced to life imprisonment for a crime he or she had committed intentionally;
men, as well as women sentenced to life imprisonment for crimes committed in particularly dangerous recidivism, are strictly regulated.
in correctional facilities;
(c) Men sentenced to imprisonment for crimes committed in a particularly dangerous recidivism shall be subject to special disciplinary action.
in institutions.
(2) Persons who have attained the age of eighteen years and are sentenced to a term of not more than eight years for a particularly serious crime, as well as a particularly dangerous residual
a certain part of the term of imprisonment, but not more than five years, is to be kept in prison.
bilner.
(3) Juveniles sentenced to deprivation of liberty shall serve their sentences in educational institutions.
(4) Amendment of the sentence in the form of imprisonment for persons convicted of negligence and sentenced to imprisonment.
where they are forcibly relocated to institutions.
(5) Change of the form of the correctional institution established by the verdict in accordance with the criminal and executive legislation of Turkmenistan.
held by.
(In edition of the Laws of Turkmenistan of March 26, 2011 and March 20, 2017 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2011, No. 3, Article 55; 2017, No. 1, Article 29).

Article 68 Conditional termination

(1) If the court establishes the sentence in the form of imprisonment or detention in a military-correctional unit, the sentence shall be commuted.
when it comes to the conclusion that it is possible to rectify it without filling it, it decides to conditionally calculate the prescribed penalty.
(2) In the event of a suspended sentence, the court shall facilitate the nature, gravity and consequences of the offense committed, and mitigate the circumstances;
aggravating, taking into account the identity of the offender. Conditional sentences are not used for people who have committed particularly serious crimes.
(3) The court shall determine the probationary period for a suspended conviction, during which the convict shall be remanded in custody.
must prove. In the event of a sentence of detention in a military correctional unit or imprisonment for up to one year, the probationary period
not less than six months and not more than three years, and in case of imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, nine months
should not be less than five years.
(4) Additional penalties may be imposed in the event of a suspended sentence.
(5) The court may impose a conditional sentence and impose certain duties on the convicted person, i.e., to recover the damages, to
admission to a place of permanent residence without the permission of the institution that monitors the conduct of the convicted person
not to change, not to go to some places, to be in their place of residence after a certain period of time, from alcoholism, drug addiction, addiction or
to undergo venereal disease treatment, to provide financial support to the family. The case is being re-assigned to another judge
may also be required to perform other duties that may assist in its recovery.
(6) The conduct of a convict shall be supervised by the Home Office, and in the case of servicemen, the military
carried out by the departments and departments.
(7) During the probationary period, the court shall issue a written notice of the conduct of the conditional convict's conduct.
may, in whole or in part, cancel or add to the obligations previously set for the person.

Article 69 Cancellation of probation or extension of probation

(1) If the convicted person proves that he or she has been corrected by his or her conduct until the end of the probationary period, the court
jointly with the agency that monitors the conduct of the convicted person and the agency that monitors the execution of the criminal sentence;
may propose the abolition of a suspended sentence on the proposal and the removal of the sentence of conviction from the convicted person.
(2) If a convict refuses to perform his or her duties or violates public order,
therefore, if he or she has been given an administrative penalty, the court shall, in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article,
may extend the probationary period at the joint suggestion of the supervisory authority, but that extension shall not exceed one year.
(3) A person convicted during a probationary period shall be liable to a default or intentional discharge of his or her duties by the court.
for failure to comply with the lawsuit filed by the agency referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the agency overseeing the execution of the criminal sentence.
decides to abolish the suspended sentence on the joint proposal and to carry out the sentence prescribed by the judgment.
(4) If a person who has been sentenced to a suspended sentence during the probationary period has committed a new, negligent offense, the suspended sentence
the issue of cancellation or retention is resolved by the court.
(5) In the event of an intentional offense committed by a person who has been sentenced to parole during the probationary period, the court shall
imposes penalties under the rules provided for in Article. If the court rescinds the suspended sentence, it is new due to negligence
in the event of a crime, the same penalty is imposed.

1
Article
69 is repealed.

SECTION IV. FROM CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY AND
RELEASE FROM PUNISHMENT

CHAPTER 10 RELEASE FROM CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY

Article 70 Exemption from criminal liability in connection with voluntary confession

(1) If a person voluntarily and permanently refuses to complete an unfinished offense, the offense for an unfinished offense
exempt from liability.
(2) A person who voluntarily refuses to complete an unfinished offense if his or her actual conduct constitutes another offense.
only in such cases, when it consists of actions, does it apply to criminal liability.
(3) The voluntary refusal of the criminal organizer and the provocateur, if these persons report to the authorities in a timely manner or their
if they prevented the perpetrator from being terminated by other measures taken in a timely manner,
is the basis for his release. Ally, if his subsequent conduct is up to him to prevent the commission of the crime.
is released from criminal liability if he testifies that he has taken all appropriate measures.
(4) If the actions of the organizer or the instigator referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article preclude the commission of the offense;
If they fail to do so, they will not be released from prison, but they will be released on parole.
can be recognized as a mitigating circumstance.

Article 71 Exemption from criminal liability for serious remorse

(1) A person who has committed a minor serious or moderately serious crime for the first time, if the offense
repenting after confessing, confessing his guilt, voluntarily coming and actively assisting in the discovery of the crime
reimburses the damage caused or corrects the damage caused by the crime in another way,
as well as a crime if the victim has no complaint, taking into account his or her identity
may be exempt from liability.
(2) The provisions of the first part of this article shall apply to terrorism and extremism
offenses committed within an organized group or criminal association
crimes, juvenile delinquency,
does not apply to crimes committed against the health of the population, but does not apply to the Special Part of this Code.
this does not include cases specifically provided for in the relevant articles. Shown
The restriction does not apply to minors who have committed crimes in the context of sexual intercourse.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 72 Release from criminal responsibility for reconciliation with the victim

The person who first committed the offenses provided for in Articles 111, 115 and Paragraph 1 of Article 132 of this Code, if he or she
he may be released from criminal liability if he reconciles with the victim and corrects the harm caused to the victim.
Page 3

(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 73 Exemption from criminal liability as the situation changes

The person who committed the offense of minor or serious misdemeanor for the first time, if the person or the person who committed the crime as a result of a change in circumstances
he may be released from criminal liability if his conduct ceases to be a public danger.

Article 74 Exemption from criminal liability due to expiration of time

(1) A person shall be released from criminal liability if the following terms have elapsed since the date of commission of the crime:
a) after committing a minor serious crime - two years;
b) eight years after the commission of an offense of medium gravity;
c) fifteen years after the commission of a serious or particularly serious crime.
(2) The period from the date of commission of the offense and until the date of entry into force of the judgment shall be calculated. That
in the case of a person committing a new crime, the time limit is extended separately for each crime.
(3) If the person refuses to investigate or the court, the continuation of the time limit shall be suspended. In this case, the extension of time
it resumes from the moment a person is arrested or confesses his or her guilt.
(4) The issue of the use of time limits for a person who has committed a particularly serious crime shall be resolved by the court.
(5) Time limits shall not apply to persons who have committed crimes against peace and the security of mankind.

CHAPTER 11. RELEASE FROM PUNISHMENT

Article 75 Early parole

(1) Execution of correctional labor, restrictions on military service, serving a term of imprisonment in the form of imprisonment
or a person detained in the military-correctional unit, if he is to be remanded, it is necessary to extend the term of the sentence imposed by the court.
may be released on parole if convicted by a court of law. Then that person is either full of additional punishment or
may be partially discharged.
(2) Using a conditional pre-sentence exemption, the court shall provide that person with the provisions of paragraph five of Article 68 of this Code.
may impose obligations on that person, which he or she must perform for the remainder of his or her sentence.
(3) A pre-parole sentence shall be commuted by a convicted person to the term of the actual sentence:
(a) after completing one-third of the term of imprisonment for a minor or minor offense;
(b) after completing at least half of the term of imprisonment for a serious offense;
c) the term of imprisonment for a particularly serious crime, as well as the term of imprisonment for a person who was previously released on parole;
after completing two-thirds of the time, if the premature release is the grounds provided for in the sixth part of this article
can be used if canceled on.
(4) The actual term of imprisonment of a person in the form of deprivation of liberty may not be less than six months.
(5) A premature release agency and an institution that monitors the execution of a criminal sentence.
at the joint suggestion, the case is used by the court at the place where the convict is serving his sentence.
(6) The conduct of a person who has been released prematurely is subject to the supervision of the internal affairs agencies, and in the case of military personnel, the military
carried out by the departments and departments.
(7) If during the period of unpaid sentence:
(a) The convicted person violates public order and is released on parole or parole;
if it deliberately refuses to perform its obligations imposed on it by the court, then the court shall
cancellation and early termination of a conditional release on the joint proposal of the agencies specified in part
decides to comply with the unfilled portion;
(b) If the commission commits a new offense out of carelessness, the cancellation or suspension of the conditional early release in such a case;
the matter is settled by the court;
c) in case of intentional commission of a conviction, the court shall impose a penalty on him or her in the manner provided for in Article 64 of this Code. If the court
if he commits a felony due to negligence, if he abolishes his parole, the penalty is again set by those rules.
(8) Premature release shall not apply to:
a person who has previously been convicted of a particularly serious crime and who has committed a serious or particularly serious crime;
the offender in a particularly serious case of recidivism.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

1
Article
75 is repealed.

Article 76 Replacing the incomplete part of the sentence with its lighter form

(1) The term of imprisonment of a person who fulfills his sentence in the form of imprisonment for a minor or serious offense.
a joint proposal of the agency that carries out the remaining part of the penalty and monitors the execution of the criminal penalty;
taking into account his conduct during the period of his sentence by the court on
can be replaced with a lighter version. The person may then be released in full or in part from the additional penalty.
(2) Replacing the remaining unpaid portion of the sentence with its lighter form shall be at least one-third of the actual term of the sentence imposed.
can be used after passing the part.
(3) In case of replacement of the unpaid part of the sentence, in the amount prescribed for the appropriate form of punishment, listed in Article 44 of this Code.
the court may choose any softer measure in accordance with the appropriate forms of the sentence passed.

Article 77 Exemption from serious illness

(1) A psychiatrist who has been deprived of the opportunity to understand or control the true meaning of his or her actions after committing a crime.
A person with a mental illness is exempt from punishment, and a person who completes his or her sentence is free from further imprisonment.
is done. Such a person may be required by court to take compulsory medical measures.
(2) A person who suffers from another serious illness which prevents him from serving his sentence after committing a crime shall be sentenced by the court to a term of imprisonment.
may be exempted from filling.
(3) Persons who have lost their ability to work after retirement or who have reached retirement age are subject to remedial action by the court.
may be exempted from punishment in the form of
(4) In the case of recovery of persons referred to in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if provided for in Articles 74 and 79 of this Code.
may be subject to punishment if the time of detention has not expired.

Article 78 Postponement of punishment for pregnant women and women with young children

(1) For women convicted of a felony and women with children under the age of eight, for more than five years for serious or particularly serious crimes against the individual;
with the exception of those sentenced to a higher term, the court may postpone the completion of the sentence until the child reaches the age of eight.
(2) If the woman referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is notified by the body that monitors the conduct of the convict.
if he refuses to give up the child after the transfer or continues to refuse to bring up the child, the court shall
postponement of the completion of the sentence of the woman on the joint proposal of the institution that monitors the execution of the criminal sentence;
may terminate the deportation and may send the convicted wife to the designated place to serve her sentence in accordance with the judgment of the court.
(3) When the child reaches the age of eight, the convicted wife shall be brought to justice by the court and the criminal justice agency.
dismisses the remainder of the sentence on the joint proposal of the supervising authority or
replaces the rest of the sentence with a lighter one, or the convicted wife is replaced by the appropriate authority to fill the rest of the sentence.
decides to return it.
(4) If the convicted woman commits a new offense during the postponement of the completion of the sentence, the court shall provide for the provisions of Article 64 of this Code.
imposes a penalty on him according to the rules.

Article 79 Exemption from serving a sentence due to expiration of the sentence of the indictment

(1) A person convicted of a crime shall, if the conviction is commuted on the date of entry into force of the law, be replaced within the following periods:
if not served, he shall be exempted from serving his sentence:
a) two years in prison for a minor serious offense;
(b) eight years in the case of a felony;
(c) Failure to do so within fifteen years of conviction for a felony or a felony;
(2) If the convicted person refuses to serve his or her sentence, the term of office shall be suspended. In that case, that person
the period of time is resumed from the moment he is arrested or confesses his guilt. The term of imprisonment of the guilty person
the period of time from the time of refusal to the time of refusal shall be considered as the period of time.
(3) The term of imprisonment shall not apply to persons convicted of crimes against peace and the security of mankind.

CHAPTER 12. DON'T FORGET, DON'T,
THE MOST DISABLED DISEASE

Article 80 Forgiveness and mercy

(1) A person who commits a crime shall be released from criminal liability on the basis of a pardon. A person convicted of a crime is guilty
may be completely exempt from punishment in accordance with the transcript, the prescribed penalty may be reduced or replaced with a lighter one, such a person
may be exempt from additional punishment.
(2) A person convicted of a crime shall be subject to parole or unconditional release from a further term of imprisonment on the basis of a pardon.
may be reduced or replaced with a lighter sentence.
(3) If a person with a conditional pardon commits a felony again and again during the period of probation, the court shall order him or her to comply with Article 64 of this Code.
imposes penalties under the provisions of Article
(4) Convicted of corruption and drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, and illegal trafficking of precursors;
no pardon or pardon is applied to convicted persons.
(In the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 30, 2019 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2019, No. 4, ___Article).

Article 81 Chargeback

(1) A person convicted of a crime shall have the right to self-determination or conviction of a felony conviction from the date of entry into force of the indictment.
the case is considered to have been terminated until the time of departure.
(2) The conviction is dismissed spontaneously in the following cases:
a) with the expiration of the probationary period in respect of convicts;
(b) The term of primary and additional punishment imposed on persons convicted of a lesser offense than imprisonment;
with filling;
c) the basic and additional penalties for persons sentenced to imprisonment for committing a minor serious or moderately serious crime;
two years after the expiration date;
(d) Fulfillment of the term of primary and additional punishment for persons sentenced to imprisonment for a serious crime;
then four years later;
e) six years after the expiration of the period of primary and additional punishment for persons convicted of a particularly serious crime;
as it passes.
(3) If a person has been released prematurely from the punishment in the manner prescribed by law, or if the unfinished part of the punishment is his or her
if replaced with a lighter one, then the period of self-removal of the conviction shall be the same as the actual time of serving the principal and additional punishment.
is calculated based on the filling.
(4) If the offender commits a repeat offense before the expiration of the sentence of conviction, the two offenses shall be commuted.
and commencing the period of conviction after committing the punishment for the last offense (basic and additional).
the person is considered convicted of both offenses until the expiration of the conviction for a felony.
(5) If the convicted person behaves flawlessly after completing his sentence, the court at his request
before the expiration of his or her self-imposed conviction, but not earlier than half of that term.
it can remove a case from it.
(6) All legal consequences relating to the conviction of a convict shall be annulled by the voluntary dismissal or dismissal of the conviction.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 26, 2010 and March 1, 2014 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2010, Article 4,72; 2014, No. 1, Article 44).

SECTION V TO THE AGE OF PERFECTION
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE FAIR

CHAPTER 13 FEATURES OF CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PENALTY OF MINORS

Article 82 Criminal liability of minors

(1) Those who have attained the age of fourteen at the time of the commission of the offense but have not attained the age of eighteen are considered to be minors.
is recognized. The appropriate age is calculated as the start date of the day following the date of birth.
(2) The criminal liability of a person who has committed an offense under the age of eighteen years shall be determined by the provisions and general provisions of this section of this Code.
is determined.
(3) Juveniles who have committed a crime may be subject to disciplinary action or compulsory disciplinary measures.

Article 83 Assignment of punishment

(1) When a juvenile is sentenced, his or her living and upbringing conditions, level of mental development, other personality traits,
the tone of the crime, as well as the influence of adults and other minors, is taken into account.
(2) Other circumstances that mitigate and aggravate the liability as a mitigating circumstance.
together with.
(3) Penalty for juveniles who have committed a crime within the limits established by the relevant article of the Special Part of this Code.
shall be fixed in stages for a period of up to six months, in which case the court shall, on the recommendation of the executing authority,
pre-determined penalties or lighter penalties or compulsory disciplinary measures may be applied when imposing a penalty for the next round.
(4) The court shall determine the specific circumstances of the offense committed by the minor, his or her mental development, social and living conditions, and his or her health.
taking into account the state of affairs and the level of education, as well as the other circumstances specified in Article 59 of this Code,
may be limited to the establishment of a form of restriction of his liberty in lieu of the penalty provided for in the relevant article of section
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 84 Types of punishment

The types of penalties for minors are:
a) a fine;
b) corrective actions;
c) restrictions on freedom;
d) imprisonment. ”
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 85 Fine

The fine applies only to minors with independent income and the average monthly wage.
is set in the amount of two to fifty.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 86 Correctional work

(1) Correctional work is only available to minors who have reached the age of sixteen who are able to work in their workplaces if they have reached the age of majority.
if the minor does not work and does not study, the case is applied for a period of up to six months in other places within the place of residence of the convict.
(2) In the event that a juvenile intentionally refuses to complete the correctional period
may replace his unpaid term with imprisonment, but his term shall not exceed four months. Corrective action
Replacement with imprisonment shall be carried out in accordance with the rules provided for in the third part of Article 50 of this Code.
(In edition of the Laws of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and November 8, 2014 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 4, Article 145).

1
Article
86 Restrictions on freedom

Restrictions on freedom for minors are limited to one to two years.
1
The Code should
be added to Article 86 in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.

Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77.

Article 87 Deprivation

(1) Imprisonment of minors for a term not exceeding ten years, and for especially serious crimes for fifteen years.
is set for a minimum period.
(2) Punishment in the form of imprisonment for minors who have committed minor heinous crimes for the first time.
is not marked.
(3) At the time of sentencing, a person under the age of eighteen shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment in the educational institution.
filling is scheduled.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 88 Exemption

Juvenile delinquency for the first time, which is a serious or moderately serious crime, if the offense is committed and its consequences
if it is possible to correct his or her behavior on the basis of information about his or her character, personality, and other circumstances of his or her activity without the use of punishment,
the court may release him from punishment and take compulsory measures of an educational nature to him.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of March 26, 2011 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2011, No. 1, 20Article).

Article 89 The use of compulsory educational measures

(1) A juvenile who has committed a minor serious offense for the first time, if his or her correction is compulsorily enforced by an educator;
may be released from criminal liability if it is recognized that it can be achieved through the use of measures.
(2) The following educationally effective measures may be prescribed for minors:
a) warning;
b) to be placed under the supervision of their parents, their successors or law enforcement agencies;
c) impose a duty to remedy the damage;
d) limiting leisure time and setting specific requirements for conduct.
(3) A number of compulsory educational measures may be prescribed at the same time as the juvenile. Of the second part of this article
The duration of the application of the educationally compulsory measures provided for in paragraphs (b) and (d) shall be
determined by.
(4) Parents who do not consistently fulfill the requirements provided for in the compulsory measures assigned to them by the educator effectively;
in which case the measure is revoked at the suggestion of the competent public authority, and the material is a juvenile offense.
sent for prosecution.

Article 90 Content of effective coercive measures

(1) A warning shall be given to the juvenile by repeating the damage caused by his or her conduct and the acts provided for in the criminal law.
consists in explaining the consequences of the damage done.
(2) Under the supervision of the juvenile is subject to disciplinary action and his or her conduct is subject to the provisions of Article 89 of this Code.
consists in imposing on the persons referred to in the second part of Article.
(3) The burden of correcting the damage caused shall be determined by the state of the minor's property and the relevant labor practices therein.
is taken into account that it exists.
(4) Restrictions on access to certain places, the use of certain forms of free time, in particular the use of mechanical vehicles.
driving-related use, prohibition of being out of the house after a certain time of night, internal affairs
may consider limiting travel to other places without the permission of the authorities. It is also an education for minors
a return to school or employment with the help of an authorized government agency may be required.
This list is not exhaustive.

Article 91 Early parole

Pre-parole in the case of a juvenile sentenced to life in prison for correctional work or deprivation of liberty
release:
(a) at least one-fourth of the term of imprisonment for a minor or a lesser offense;
(b) at least one-third of the term of imprisonment for a serious offense;
c) may be used after the actual withdrawal of at least two-thirds of the sentence prescribed for a particularly serious crime.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 92 Duration

A person who has committed a crime before the age of eighteen is subject to criminal liability or imprisonment for a term of imprisonment.
the exemption shall be made with the expiration of three times less than provided for in Articles 74 and 79 of this Code.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 93 Spontaneous termination of the conviction

The period of self-determination of the sentence of conviction for persons who have committed crimes before the age of eighteen years shall be the same as in the second part of Article 81 of this Code.
is reduced to the extent provided for in section and is equivalent to:
(a) one year after the expiration of the term of imprisonment for a minor or serious offense;
b) three years after serving his sentence for a serious crime;
c) five years after completing his sentence for a particularly serious crime.

SECTION VI. MEDICAL OBLIGATION
BASIS AND PROCEDURE FOR USE OF MEASURES

CHAPTER 14. COMPULSORY MEASURES WITH MEDICAL CHARACTERISTICS

Article 94 Grounds for the use of compulsory medical measures

(1) Compulsory medical measures may be prescribed by the court in the following cases:
(a) the perpetrator of a crime under a criminal law is mentally ill;
(b) A person with a mental disorder who does not allow the appointment or execution of a sentence after committing a crime.
(2) Medical measures may result in alcoholism, drug addiction, or addiction, and other addictions.
the purpose of which is to treat those who have committed a crime and to facilitate their treatment and to facilitate the attainment of the purpose of punishment;
and may be appointed by the court along with the penalty.
(3) The procedure for enforcing compulsory medical measures shall be determined by the criminal and executive legislation of Turkmenistan.
(4) Persons who have committed a minor serious offense, listed in the first part of this article, as well as by their own mental state;
In the case of people who do not pose a threat, the court may decide whether to treat them or send them to psychiatric institutions.
health care and the necessary materials in the manner prescribed by the legislation of Turkmenistan on assistance and legal guarantees of citizens in its provision
can give to law enforcement.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Article 95 The purpose is to implement compulsory medical measures

Preventing people from taking compulsory measures of a medical nature from committing new acts provided for in the criminal law, as well as
and either treating those people or endangering their mental state for themselves or for other people, or for any other serious injury.
used to improve the risk.

Article 96 Types of compulsory measures of a medical nature

(1) The court may prescribe the following types of medical coercive measures:
a) compulsory traffic control and treatment;
b) psychiatric compulsory treatment in a general type of inpatient manner;
c) compulsory treatment in a specialized psychiatric medical institution;
d) compulsory treatment in a psychiatric medical institution with a strong supervised specialized type.
(2) A person convicted of an offense under the Criminal Code and who is in a state of mental retardation, but who is under the influence of alcohol, drugs or
in the form of compulsory surveillance and treatment in traffic conditions for a person in need of treatment from toxicomania
may prescribe a compulsory measure of a medical nature.

CHAPTER 15. MEDICAL OBLIGATION
MEETING AND CERTIFICATION OF MEASURES

Article 97 Establishment of compulsory measures of a medical nature

(1) In the case of compulsory monitoring and treatment of traffic conditions on the grounds provided for in Article 94 of this Code, if that person
may be prescribed if he or she does not need to be placed in an inpatient psychiatric hospital due to his or her mental condition.
(2) Compulsory treatment in an inpatient psychiatric hospital, provided that the grounds provided for in Article 94 of this Code, if
the nature and severity of that person's mental illness can only be treated, treated, and maintained in a hospital setting;
and can be set if it requires monitoring conditions.
(3) Needs to be hospitalized in the general psychiatric psychiatric hospital for compulsory treatment mental health,
but can be assigned to a person who does not require strong supervision.
(4) Compulsory treatment in a specialized type of inpatient psychiatric hospital is permanent according to his or her mental state.
may be assigned to a person requesting supervision.
(5) Compulsory treatment in an inpatient psychiatric institution with a strongly controlled specialized type of psychiatric condition may be self-inflicted.
and may be appointed to that person if it is particularly dangerous to others and requires permanent and vigorous supervision.

Article 98 Continuation, modification and termination of compulsory measures of a medical nature

(1) Continuation, modification, and termination of medical coercion are the result of a team of psychiatrists.
on the basis of which the management of the psychiatric care institution is registered by the court.
(2) A person who has been prescribed a compulsory measure of a medical nature shall have the right to suspend or modify such measure.
at least once every six months by the group referred to in the first part of this article in order to submit a proposal to the court to resolve the issue.
subject to repeated scrutiny. If there is no reason to terminate or change a coercive measure of a medical nature, the psychiatric
the circulation of the aid agency gives its conclusion to the court to continue the compulsory treatment. The first continuation of coercive treatment
can be done six months after the start of the medical coercion.
(3) Modification or termination of a compulsory measure of a medical nature, the mental state of that person, which eliminates the need for a pre-determined measure.
is carried out by the court in the event of a change in the level or the need to prescribe another measure of a medical nature.
(4) Upon termination of compulsory treatment at the inpatient psychiatric hospital, the court shall grant that person the right to a remand under Article 97 (1) of this Code.
may prescribe control and treatment in a compulsory manner.

Article 99 Registration of the time of application of compulsory measures of a medical nature

A person who suffers from a mental illness after committing a crime is entitled to a period of compulsory medical treatment, and
in the event that a sentence is imposed on him or his execution is restored, he shall be counted on the term of imprisonment.

Article 100 Compulsory treatment combined with the execution of a sentence

(1) In the cases provided for in the second part of Article 96 of this Code, medical coercive measures shall be deprived of liberty.
where he completes his sentence in the form of conviction, in a traffic psychiatric manner in respect of convicts, other types of convictions;
performed in health care facilities that provide assistance.
(2) Based on the conclusions of the team of psychiatrists, if the case is based on the mental state of the convict and the benefit of treatment,
the court may send such a person to an inpatient psychiatric hospital or other treatment facility. Then Article 98 of this Code
the inspection period provided for in the second part shall be complied with.
(3) The time spent in the said institutions shall be taken into account for the period of completion of the sentence. The case is being re-assigned to another judge
in the event of the elimination of the need for treatment, he shall, by the decision of the court, extend the term of imprisonment in the manner provided for in the fourth part of this article.
sent to fill.
(4) The termination of a coercive measure combined with the execution of a sentence shall be based on the conclusions of a group of psychiatrists.
is carried out on the instructions of the penitentiary institution.

SPECIAL PART

SECTION VII. CRIMES AGAINST INDIVIDUALS

CHAPTER 16. CRIMES AGAINST HEALTH AND HEALTH

Article 101 Intentional homicide

(1) Intentional homicide,
from eight to fifteen years of imprisonment, with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
deprivation is punishable.
(2) Intentional manslaughter:
a) two or more persons;
(b) the person or persons close to him or her in connection with the performance of his or her official or public duty;
c) in connection with the kidnapping or hostage-taking of a person whose negligence is apparent to the offender;
(d) his wife, whose pregnancy is conspicuous;
e) in connection with rape or sexual violence;
ä) with special cruelty;
f) in a way that is visibly dangerous to the lives of many people;
g) two or more persons without preliminary communication, or a group of persons on preliminary communication, an organized group or
by a criminal association;
h) with the intention of greed, as well as with respect to wages;
i) with intent to commit an offense;
(j) In order to conceal or facilitate the commission of another crime;
(b) with a view of social, national, gender or religious hatred or hostility;
k) for the purpose of receiving blood;
l) again, the acts provided for in Articles 102 and 103 of this Code do not include;
m) in particularly dangerous recidivism,
from ten to twenty-five years, with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77 Article).

Article 102 Murder in case of aggression

The use of violence, ridicule or gross discrimination or other illegal or immoral acts (inaction) of the victim, as well as
a long-term mental disability that occurs in violation of the victim’s regular rights or in connection with immoral behavior
to a murderer in the event of a sudden intense emotional excitement (anger) as a result,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 103 By going beyond the necessary defenses or by going beyond the limits necessary to arrest the offender, the person
to kill

(1) A person who intentionally kills a person by going beyond the necessary defenses,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) Whoever takes the necessary measures to apprehend the offender and intentionally kills him,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.

Article 104 A mother deliberately kills her newborn baby

A mother who accidentally killed her newborn child during childbirth or directly after childbirth,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 105 Careless killings

(1) For negligent homicide,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) For negligent homicide of two or more persons,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 106 Tendency to commit suicide and coercion

(1) The tendency to commit suicide, i.e., to persuade, deceive, or otherwise commit suicide in another person.
if he wakes up the button, if that person commits suicide, commits suicide or commits suicide,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) To threaten a person, to slander him, to impose an unbearable day on him, or to infringe upon his personal dignity, by committing suicide;
coerced or conspired to commit suicide,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) The act provided for in the second part of this article, in the case of a minor,
Page 4

sentenced to eight years in prison.

Article 107 Intentional injury to health

(1) If the intentional injury to the test threatens the life of the person or, as a result, the person ceases to see, speak, or hear;
or if he loses any organ, or is cut off from the functioning of any organ, or is subjected to irreparable recklessness,
as well as other health hazards, including at least one-third of the total length of life,
if he loses or loses his full capacity for professional work, or if he has a miscarriage or a mental illness,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(2) He did so if:
(a) in respect of a woman whose pregnancy is conspicuous to the offender;
(b) in respect of that person or his or her close relatives in connection with the performance of one's official or public duty;
(c) by two or more persons without preliminary communication or by a group of persons for preliminary communication;
(d) by a method of torture or ill-treatment;
e) in a general hazardous manner;
(e) with intent to defraud;
f) with social, national, gender or religious hatred or hostility;
g) by an organized group;
(h) with respect to two or more persons;
i) if repeated,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(3) If the acts provided for in the first or second part of this article are committed by a criminal association or negligence
leads to the death of the victim,
sentenced to six to fifteen years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 108 Intentional Medium Weight Loss

(1) Intentional injury or other harm to the health of the test is not dangerous to the life of the person and is not covered by Article 107 of this Code.
does not lead to the intended results, but less than a third of the long-term health damage or general disability
if it has caused considerable loss of time, for this reason,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for a term of up to two years;
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) He did so if:
(a) in respect of a woman whose pregnancy is conspicuous;
(b) with respect to two or more persons;
c) in respect of that person or his or her close relatives in connection with the performance of his or her official or public duty;
(d) by a group of persons on or without preliminary communication by two or more persons;
e) by a method of torture or torture;
(e) with intent to defraud;
f) with social, national, gender or religious hatred or hostility;
g) if repeated,
is fined between twenty and fifty percent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
are punishable by imprisonment for up to five years or imprisonment for up to five years.
(Laws of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013, May 3, 2014 and November 25, 2017)
in the wording - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 1, Article 44, 2014, No. 2, Article 77;
2017, No. 4, Article 167).

Article 109 Intentional or moderate serious injury to health in case of aggression

As a result of violence, ridicule or extreme discrimination by the victim, or unlawful or immoral acts
(inaction), as well as the long-term mentality of the victim, which is inconsistent with the law or is caused by immoral behavior.
intentionally severe or moderately severe to health in the event of a sudden intense emotional excitement (anger) as a result of a debilitating condition
injured
is fined between twenty and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 110 Deliberately or moderately serious health problems when exceeding the required defenses or when a perpetrator is caught.
injury

(1) A person who intentionally inflicts serious or moderately severe health damage by exceeding the necessary defenses,
is fined up to twenty of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(2) A person who intentionally or severely injures his or her health by going beyond the limits necessary to apprehend the offender;
is fined between twenty and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 111 Deliberate injury to health

Exposure to intentional minor injuries or other damage to health may result in short-term health damage or general injury.
if it has led to a slight loss of sickness time,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to six months in prison.

Article 112 is excluded - in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - (Parliament of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77).

Article 113 Snoring

(1) If a person is subjected to physical or mental torture by continuous beating or other forms of violence, he or she shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 107 and 108 of this Code.
if it does not lead to the intended results, then
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) The following acts shall be committed if:
(a) in the case of a woman whose pregnancy is conspicuous;
(b) in respect of that person or his or her close relatives in connection with the performance of his or her official or public duty;
(c) In the case of a minor or in a state of disrepair, the offender is conspicuous or the offender is materially or otherwise dependent;
in the case of a person who is present, as well as in the case of a person who has been abducted or held hostage;
(d) by two or more persons without preliminary communication, or by a group of persons in advance;
e) through torture;
(e) social, national, sexual, or religious hatred or hostility;
sentenced to three to seven years in prison.

Article 114 Treat a person who is in a state of dependence or in a state of misery

(1) A person who is in a state of dependence or is in a state of disability due to illness, disability or old age;
up to one year in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) Such an act, if recklessly leads to the death of a person or to other serious consequences,
sentenced to up to four years in prison.

Article 115 Serious injury to health care

If you have been seriously injured in a car accident,
is fined between twenty and fifty percent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 116 Threatening to kill or cause serious health damage

Threaten to death or to the detriment of health, if there is reason to beware of the realization of this threat,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

Article 117 Infection with venereal disease

(1) Although he or she knows that he or she has an infectious venereal disease,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.
(2) A person who has committed such an act in respect of two or more persons or minors,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to five years.

Article 118 is excluded - in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - (Parliament of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77).

Article 119 Infecting AIDS

(1) A person who exposes another person to the risk of contracting AIDS,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) Although he or she knows that he or she has AIDS,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) Who has committed the acts provided for in the second part of this Article in respect of two or more persons, or under the age of majority,
sentenced to eight years in prison.
(4) As a result of a failure by a physician or pharmacist to perform his or her professional duties properly
if it infects a person,

up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 8, 2019 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2019, No. 2-3, 27Article).

1
Article
119 Immediate refusal to treat a dangerous infectious disease recognized as an epidemic or pandemic, and

infecting it

(1) Refusing to treat a dangerous infectious disease recognized as an epidemic or pandemic without hesitation, fleeing, or infecting other people
who is clearly at risk of contracting the disease,
sentenced to up to two years in prison.
(2) The person who has committed the acts provided for in the first part of this article, or who has committed such acts, shall be liable to death or other grave consequences.
if he brings
sentenced to imprisonment for up to five years.
(3) who has assisted a person with a serious infectious disease recognized as an epidemic or pandemic to avoid treatment;

from the right to work or hold a particular position for a period of up to three years
imprisonment for up to three years without imprisonment or imprisonment
is given.
(In the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of August 22, 2020 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2020, No. 3, ___ Article).

Article 120 Illegal abortion

(1) A person who has a higher medical education in the relevant field, whether in a hospital or other hospital, or
in a nursing home, but if an abortion is performed illegally, for this,
is fined between ten and thirty times the average monthly wage, or up to three years in a particular position;
the penalty of employment or correctional labor for up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity
is given.
(2) Abortion by a person who does not have a higher medical education in the relevant field;
is fined between ten and fifty of the average monthly wage, or corrected from one to two years;
deprived or deprived of the right to work in their jobs or to hold a particular position for three years or to engage in a particular job
sentenced to up to two years in prison without doing so.
(3) If the acts provided for in the first or second part of this article are repeated,
up to three years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.
(4) The acts provided for in the first, second or third paragraph of this Article shall, if recklessly result in the death of the victim, or
if he or she suffers serious or moderately serious health problems,
up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 121 Not helping a sick person

(1) A person who is obliged to provide assistance to a sick person in accordance with the law or a special rule shall not be entitled to help for any reason.
if he or she suffers from moderate to severe health,
is fined between twenty and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or in a certain position for up to three years;
the penalty of employment or correctional labor for up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity
is given.
(2) Such an act may result in the death of the patient due to negligence or serious injury to his health;
up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 122 Failure to properly perform professional duties by a medical professional

(1) Failure or improper performance of professional duties by a medical officer, disregard for them;
or if he is severely injured in health as a result of not being treated with a pure heart,
for up to five years in a particular position or deprivation of the right to engage in a particular job, or in correctional work for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) Such acts, if they cause serious injury to the health or cause the death of the victim inadvertently, shall
up to three years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 123 Improper fulfillment of obligations to protect the life and health of minors

The life and health of minors by a child or adolescent agency charged with service responsibilities
failure or improper performance of professional duties to protect, disregard or
not to be treated with contempt, if these acts carelessly lead to the death of a minor or to the detriment of his or her health.
if brought
for a period of up to three years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold a particular position or engage in a particular activity for a period of three years;
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 124 Illegal medical treatment

(1) A person who does not have special permission or appropriate medical education may be negligently injured in moderate health.
if so, for that matter,
is fined between ten and fifty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) Such an act, if recklessly leads to the death of the victim or to the detriment of his health,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.

Article 125 Endangered

Who is in danger of life and health, and who defends himself due to his youth, old age, illness, or his own misery;
to a person who has visibly left a person deprived of the opportunity to take remedial action to help the victim
if the offender has the opportunity and is obliged to take care of it, or if the offender himself has suffered, it is dangerous for his life;
if it puts him in the situation,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

CHAPTER 17 CRIMES AGAINST FREEDOM, HONOR AND DIGNITY OF PERSONALITY

Article 126 Kidnapping

(1) If a person is abducted,
sentenced to four to ten years in prison.
(2) He did the following:
a) by a group of people or an organized group on preliminary communication;
b) repeated;
(c) by committing or endangering the use of violence endangering the life and health of the person;
(d) with the use of weapons or other weapons used as weapons;
e) in the case of two or more persons;
f) in connection with the extradition or repatriation of the abducted person from the border of Turkmenistan
if;
(f) in respect of a woman whose pregnancy is conspicuous;
g) in connection with the acquisition of organs or tissue of a person abducted for transplant purposes;
h) if it is done with a greedy intention;
sentenced to ten to fifteen years in prison.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if:
a) committed by a criminal association;
(b) inadvertently cause the death of the victim or cause serious injury to his or her health or other serious consequences;
c) in the case of a minor,
sentenced to fifteen to twenty-five years in prison.
Note.
A person who voluntarily releases a kidnapped person is released from criminal liability if there is no sign of another crime in his or her actions.

Article 127 Kidnapping women for the purpose of marriage

In spite of the will of the women, who forcibly abducted them to marry them in reality,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.

Article 128 Replacing the child

When a child is intentionally replaced,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

Article 129 Illegal deprivation of liberty

(1) A person who unlawfully deprives a person of liberty, not in connection with the abduction,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) He did the following:
a) by a group of people or an organized group on preliminary communication;
b) repeated;
c) by using violence that is life-threatening;
(d) with the use of weapons or other objects used as weapons;
(e) in the case of a minor;
f) in the case of two or more persons,
sentenced to three to five years in prison.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this article, if they result in the death of the victim in negligence or
if it causes serious harm to his health or results in other serious consequences,
sentenced to four to eight years in prison.

1
Article
129 Trafficking in human beings

(1) The trafficking in persons, i.e., the consent of the victim of human trafficking, in order to crush it, to conceal it, to transport it, to transmit it, to conceal it.
detention or intimidation, coercion, deception, exploitation of the confidence or weakness of a trafficking victim, or
the person who obtained the person by using the means of giving credit to her dependent husband, as well as the person who bought or sold the person or related
who has made other illegal transactions that are considered to be the object of ownership,
sentenced to four to ten years in prison.
(2) He did the following:
a) repeated;
b) committed by a group of persons in advance of the language;
(c) in the case of two or more persons;
(d) in respect of a person who is underage;
e) by exercising their powers;
f) the deportation of the victim outside the State Border of Turkmenistan or the illegal extradition outside the State Border of Turkmenistan
if related to storage;
f) by using force or threatening to use it;
g) in connection with the removal of organs or tissues of the victim for transplant purposes;
h) in connection with the use of a person in armed conflict or in military action or in armed combinations,
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article:
a) inadvertently leads to the death or serious injury of the victim or to other serious consequences;
b) if it is done in a way that is dangerous to the lives or health of several people;
c) by an organized group or a criminal association;
sentenced to fifteen to twenty-five years in prison.
Note
1. A victim of human trafficking is a criminal because he or she has committed an illegal act, provided that he or she is a victim of human trafficking.
exempt from liability.
2. The term "torture" in this article is defined as the degree to which a person is compelled to engage in forced labor or service, to the extent of servitude or servitude.
(situation), the placement of a slave-like elgarama, or the removal of organs and (or) tissues, the armed
it is understood to be used in conflicts, to commit sexual acts in that regard, or to other forms of oppression.
3. Adolescence, although not related to the use of any of the drugs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article,
persecution, transportation, transfer, concealment or confiscation for the purpose of oppression are considered human trafficking.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 23, 2016 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2016, No. 4, No. 163Article).

Article 130 Pledge

(1) The pledge of the offenses provided for in Articles 232 (intimidation) and 271 (terrorism) of this Code
as a condition of the release of the detainee, the State, the international organization, any legal or physical entity, or any
Pledging a person at risk of death or attempted injury in order to prevent him from committing acts
held or held as
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(2) They have done the same if:
a) by a group of people or an organized group on preliminary communication;
b) repeated;
c) if done with physical violence;
(d) by using a weapon or other weapon used as a weapon;
(e) in the case of a minor;
(e) in respect of two or more persons;
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if:
a) committed by a criminal association;
(b) carelessly causes the death or serious injury of the victim or other serious consequences;
sentenced to ten to twenty years in prison.
Note.
A person who has voluntarily released a hostage shall be released from criminal liability if he or she has no other criminal record in his or her actions.

Article 131 Forced treatment of a visibly healthy person

(1) If a psychiatrist places a person in need of such treatment in an inpatient or closed-type other care facility,
up to three years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.
(2) Such an act of negligence may result in the death of the victim or cause serious injury to his health or other serious consequences.
if he brings
from three to seven years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment up to.

Article 132 Slander

(1) Obvious false information that slanders, that is, insults or dishonors another person.
to the public, if this is done in a public speech, in a public work, or in the media,
is fined between ten and thirty times the average monthly wage.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they have resulted in serious consequences or are particularly related to serious or corruption
if committed in conjunction with a felony,
is fined between thirty and fifty of the average monthly wage or sentenced to imprisonment for up to three years
deprivation is punishable.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and May 3, 2014 - the Mejlis of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 2, Article 77).

Article 133 is amended - as amended by the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - (Parliament of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77).

CHAPTER 18. IN THE FIELD OF SEX
CRIMES

Article 134 Rape

(1) Violence against women, i.e., physical violence or intimidation, as well as exploitation of the victim;
adulterer
imprisonment from three to ten years with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years
is punished for doing.
(2) Rape of women:
a) repeated;
(b) by two or more persons without preliminary communication or by a group of persons on preliminary communication;
c) is done by humiliating the victim;
d) infects the victim with venereal disease;
e) if it is clear that he is a minor,
from five to fifteen years imprisonment with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) Rape of women:
(a) carelessly causes the death or serious injury of a victim or infects him or her with AIDS;
b) if it is clear that the victim is under the age of fourteen;
from ten to twenty-five years of imprisonment, with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
deprivation is punishable.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 8, 2019 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2019, No. 2-3, 27Article).

Article 135 Homosexuality

(1) Homosexuality, i.e., for a man who commits adultery with a man,
imprisonment for a term of two to five years with or without the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two years
is given.
(2) He who commits homosexual acts by physical violence, by threatening to use it, and by taking advantage of the misery of the victim,
imprisonment for a term of three to six years with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) The act provided for in the second part of this article, if:
a) repeated;
(b) by two or more persons without preliminary communication or by a group of persons in advance;
c) in the case of a minor who is clearly underage;
d) if the victim is infected with venereal disease,
imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
deprivation is punishable.
(4) The acts provided for in the second or third part of this article, if:
(a) in the case of a person who is under the age of fourteen;
(b) The death of a negligent victim or the deterioration of his or her health or the transmission of AIDS to him or her;
if he brings
for a period of two to five years, with or without the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of ten to twenty years.
sentenced to imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 8, 2019 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2019, No. 2-3, 27Article).

Article 136 Sexual gratification in an immoral way

(1) Sexual harassment, the threat of its use, as well as the exploitation of the victim's misconduct
satisfactory in the form of,
sentenced to two to six years in prison.
(2) He did so if:
a) again;
(b) by two or more persons without preliminary communication or by a group of persons in advance;
c) if it has serious consequences,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) In the case of a minor (a minor) provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article.
if done
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

Article 137 Forcing a person to approach adultery

Lying by threatening a liar, by threatening to destroy property, or by subduing a person who is materially or otherwise subordinate to him.
forcing him to have sexual intercourse, homosexuality, or any other act of a sexual nature,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
Page 5

Article 138 Engaging in prostitution

Repeated prostitution within one year after the imposition of the administrative penalty,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.

Article 139 Involvement in prostitution

(1) Whoever engages in prostitution,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) He did so if:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) in the case of a minor;
(d) with physical violence or the threat of its use;
e) by threat (blackmail) or deception,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
Note.
A person who has committed any of the offenses provided for in those Articles of this Code shall be deemed to have committed a repeat offense under Articles 139, 140, 141 and 142.
is considered a crime committed by.

Article 140 Organizing or maintaining brothels for immorality or prostitution

(1) The establishment or maintenance of brothels for adultery or fornication,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to five years in prison without charge.
(2) If such acts are repeated,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to three to eight years in prison without charge.

Article 141 Introduction

(1) Whoever commits adultery or commits adultery,
is punishable by imprisonment for up to five years with or without the receipt of property for free.
(2) If such an act is repeated,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 142 Nursing

(1) For the purpose of using a person who is a prostitute, i.e. a person who engages in prostitution out of greed, to have sex
take advantage
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of two to six years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) If such an act is repeated,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 143 Adultery with a person under the age of sixteen

Whoever commits adultery with a person under the age of sixteen,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.

Article 144 Immoral acts

Whoever committed immorality with a person under the age of sixteen without violence,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.

CHAPTER 19. CRIMES AGAINST THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS OF MAN AND CITIZEN

Article 145 Violation of equal rights of citizens

Ethnicity, skin color, gender, origin, property and position, place of residence, language, religion, political affiliation, party affiliation
or directly or indirectly infringes on the rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen, or
limited, if these actions have had serious consequences,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 146 Violation of privacy

(1) To illegally collect information about another person's personal or family secrets, without his or her consent,
detained or disseminated, if administrative penalties for these violations are applied, they are reinstated within a year.
if
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) The information referred to in the first part of this article shall not be used in a public speech, in a public work or in a public notice.
distributed in the media,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 147 Violation of confidentiality of correspondence, telephone conversations, mail, telegraph or other messages

Deliberately violates the confidentiality of citizens' correspondence, telephone conversations, mail, telegraph or other messages if they:
a) repeated within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
b) if it is done using the service status,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 148 Violation of the inviolability of the dwelling

If he entered the dwelling illegally or violated the inviolability of the dwelling, which was done against the will of the person living in it, if
they are:
a) repeated within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
(b) by threatening to use or threaten to use physical force;
c) if it was done using the service status,
is fined between twenty and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 149 Preventing citizens from exercising their right to participate in elections or referendums

Citizens' right to participate in elections or referendums through violence, deception, intimidation, and fraud
who obstructs its implementation, as well as who gives or obstructs the electorate,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 150 Violation of citizens' right to participate in elections or referendums

Violation of the confidentiality of voting by a member of the electoral team, forgery of ballot papers, manifestly false documents
compiling and voting, visually incorrect counting or visually incorrect voting results, election, referendum
the right of citizens to participate in elections or referendums by clearly misrepresenting the determination of the results
violation,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 151 Violation of labor protection regulations

(1) This is the responsibility of the person charged with complying with the rules of occupational safety or other occupational safety and health.
because of the violation of the rules, if this act has caused serious injury to human health,
is fined between twenty and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) The act provided for in the first part of this article, if it has resulted in the death of a person in negligence,
for a period of up to three years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for a period of five years;
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and May 3, 2014 - the Mejlis of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 2, Article 77).

Article 152 Unreasonable refusal to hire a pregnant wife or unreasonable dismissal

He who unjustifiably refuses to hire her on the pretext that she is pregnant, and who unreasonably dismisses his wife under those pretexts,
if these actions have had serious consequences,
deprivation of the right to work or employment for a period of up to five years, or up to two years
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to two years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 153 Infringement of copyrights and copyrights, rights of patent owners

Copyright acquisition, copyright or related rights, as well as patent-protected inventions, useful model
or the illicit use of an industrial design, if they:
a) repeated within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
b) if it was committed by a group of people in advance;
is fined between fifteen and thirty of the average monthly wage or adjusted for a term of up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 154 Interfering with the legal activities of religious organizations

(1) By not violating the social order of religious organizations and by violating the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens;
obstruction of unrelated legal proceedings or the practice of religious rituals,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) Such an act, if it is combined with the use of force or the threat of its use,
sentenced to up to two years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and November 21, 2015 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2013, No. 4, Article 77; 2015, No. 4, Article 144).

CHAPTER 20. THOSE WHO ARE MINOR,
FAMILY AND MORALITY
CRIMES AGAINST

Article 155 Involvement in juvenile delinquency

(1) If a person who has attained the age of eighteen has committed a crime under the age of majority,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) A parent, educator or other person charged with the duty of care of a minor under the law;
if done by the
up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.
(3) The acts provided for in paragraphs one or two of this article shall be deemed to have been carried out with the threat of physical violence or the threat of its use.
if implemented,
sentenced to four to eight years in prison.
(4) Juvenile delinquency by engaging in an organized criminal group or criminal association, or by committing a particularly serious crime;
for the acts provided for in the first, second or third part of this article in connection with the involvement of
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

Article 156 Involvement in juvenile delinquency

Eighteen-year-olds are under the age of majority for regular consumption of alcohol, illicit use of serious fumes,
if they engage in wandering or begging, if they:
a) repeated within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
(b) if the use of physical violence or the threat of its use is threatened;
sentenced to up to four years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 157 Revealing the secret of childbearing

The secret of the adoption of a child known to him in connection with the performance of his duties or duties is kept secret.
the disclosure of the secrecy of the adoption against the will of those who have adopted the child by the custodian,
to work for a period of up to three years without depriving or depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is fined between fifteen and thirty of the average monthly salary or for a certain period of time up to three years;
work in correctional work for a period of up to two years, with or without deprivation or deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities
is punished.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 158 Abuse of custody rights

If the guardianship, patronage or patronage is used to the detriment of the guardian or the patronage for the selfish, so
and to leave the guardian or patronage unattended and without the necessary assistance,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 159 Deliberately violating the obligations to bring up a minor

Responsibilities of care by a parent or a person charged with such an obligation to bring up a minor
malpractice, as well as by an educator or other staff member of the school of education or training.
the offender, if such an act is combined with cruel treatment of a minor or his health,
up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 160 Non-payment of funds for the care of children or working parents

(1) It is the responsibility of the court to ensure that parents have not reached the age of majority, as well as the incapacity of their minor children.
two months without a valid reason for payment of the decision or the payment of alimony under the notarized agreement on payment of alimony and
for refusing to do so for a longer period of time, if the administrative penalties for these violations are doubled within a year.
if it is carried out by a person who has been abused, or because he or she has refused
is fined between ten and twenty times the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(2) A notarized agreement on the decision of the court or the payment of alimony for working-age children.
for two months or more without reasonable grounds to pay for the maintenance of incapacitated parents under
for refusal, if the administrative sanctions for these offenses are committed by a person who has been twice a year
if it has been carried out or because it has been violently refused,
is fined between ten and twenty times the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of March 20, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 1, 29Article).

Article 161 Minor violation of the rights of a person charged with the task of educating minors

Violence against the dignity and dignity of a minor or a person entrusted with the task of nurturing him or her;
by infringing on the rights of a minor or other person who has been granted a minor by a decision of a parent or court;
break up with
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 162 Forcing women to get married or preventing them from getting married

(1) Whoever compels women to marry or continue to live a married life, as well as forcibly or to use violence;
threatening and preventing women from marrying their favorite husband,
is fined between twenty and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) Who, in fact, forced a minor to marry,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 163 Polygamy

Polygamy, that is, living together with two or more wives and running a common household together,
is fined between twenty and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
is punishable by employment in their work.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 164 Preparation or distribution of pornography

(1) It is intended for the purpose of showing or distributing pornographic publications and other publications, as well as those that are intended to
to someone who has done it or otherwise spread it,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
is punishable by employment in their work.
(2) If such acts are committed again, by an organized group or by a criminal association,
is punishable by imprisonment for up to five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 165 Disrespect of the grave

(1) He who despises the grave,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) to deprive the honor of the tomb, to loot the relics or other things on or inside the tomb, or to disrespect the corpse,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 166 Deliberate destruction, demolition or destruction of historical and cultural monuments

The intentional destruction, demolition or destruction of historic and cultural monuments or natural objects protected by the state,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.

SECTION VIII. PEACE AND HUMANITY
CRIMES AGAINST SECURITY

CHAPTER 21 CRIMES AGAINST PEACE AND HUMAN SECURITY

Article 167 Preaching war

Calls for a preacher of war, that is, for the use of the media, or for another way to wage a war of conquest.
spread out
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to five years.

1
Article
167 Aggressive war planning, preparation, initiation, or conduct

(1) For the planning or preparation of an aggressive war,
sentenced to imprisonment from ten to fifteen years.
(2) For the beginning or end of an aggressive war,
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty-five years.

2
Article
167 Preaching the outbreak of an aggressive war and open calls for it

(1) For the proclamation of the beginning of an aggressive war and for open calls to it,
sentenced to imprisonment for up to five years.
(2) Such acts are punishable by imprisonment if they do not provide access to the media, electronic or information and telecommunications systems, including
If using the Internet or by an official in charge
for a period of three to seven years, depriving him of the right to hold a position or to hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.

3
Article
167 Manufacture, acquisition or sale of weapons of mass destruction

Nuclear, chemical, biological, as well as other types of weapons of mass destruction prohibited by international treaties of Turkmenistan
for production, acquisition or sale,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

4
Article
167 Use of prohibited means and methods of conduct of war

(1) The mistreatment of prisoners of war or the civilian population, the expulsion of the civilian population from the country, the nationalization of the occupied territories;
destruction or looting of property, means and means prohibited by the international agreement of Turkmenistan in armed conflict
for use,
sentenced to imprisonment from ten to fifteen years.
(2) for the use of weapons of mass destruction prohibited by the international treaty of Turkmenistan;
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty-five years.

5
Article
167 Violation of the laws and customs of war

(1) Persons who have surrendered their weapons or have no means of protection, injured, ill, or injured in a shipwreck,
civil servants of medical personnel, sanitary workers, religious representatives, prisoners of war, occupied territories or military operations;
the population, other people who enjoy international protection during military operations to serve or move in the armed forces of the enemy;
coercion or deprivation of their right to an independent and fair trial, or to the criminal justice of these persons.
due to the limited right to protection in production,
sentenced to three to seven years in prison.
(2) that the health of the persons referred to in the first part of this article has been severely injured or abused, or that they have medical or biological
and whether other tests have been carried out or whether they have been used to protect troops or facilities from military action, or so.
for the occupation and detention of persons as hostages or forcible evictions of civilians,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.
(3) For the intentional killing of persons referred to in the first part of this article,
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty-five years.

6
Article
167 Criminal violations of international human rights law during armed conflict

For the following criminal violations of international humanitarian law during armed conflict, namely:
1) the use of means and methods of conduct of war that may be considered to be excessively damaging or indiscriminate;
2) intentional, extensive, long-term and substantial damage to the natural environment;
3) employees, structures, tools, vehicles and vehicles with the Red Cross and Red Crescent markings for protection purposes;
attack on resources;
4) the use of hunger among the civilian population as a means of conducting military operations;
5) the surrender of persons under the age of fifteen to the armed forces or their permission to take part in military operations;
6) the division of persons under the age of eighteen into armed groups different from the armed forces of the state, or their membership in these armed groups;
its use in military operations;
7) destruction and seizure of property independently and on a large scale without military necessity;
8) the transformation of unprotected areas and non-militarized areas into objects of attack;
9) the conversion or destruction or large-scale theft of protected cultural values ​as an object of attack, as well as
committing vandalism with respect to these values ​without military necessity;
10) military operations of cultural values ​or areas directly adjacent to them without military necessity;
the use of support, as well as the fact that these values ​or areas directly adjacent to them become the object of attack;
11) a peacekeeping, military, or military service for the purpose of evacuating, replacing, or transporting the wounded and dead left on the battlefield;
breach of agreements or local agreements to cease or suspend operations;
12) attacks on civilians or individuals;
13) it is clear that the attack will cause excessive losses or damage to civilian objects among the civilian population;
however, an indiscriminate attack on civilians or civilian facilities;
14) it is clear that an attack will cause excessive losses or damage to civilian objects;
however, attacks on facilities containing dangerous forces;
15) an attack on a person who is known to be guilty of direct participation in military operations;
16) relocation of part of the civilian population to the occupied territories;
17) unreasonable detention of repatriation of prisoners of war and civilians;
18) other means and methods of conduct of war prohibited by the international agreement of Turkmenistan in armed conflict;
use,
sentenced to imprisonment from ten to fifteen years.

7
Article
167 Inaction or criminal order in the event of an armed conflict

(1) In the event of an armed conflict, by the subordinate to the chief or an official, the second paragraph of Article 167 of this Code.

4

5
6
to warn or prevent
the commission
of offenses provided for in Articles 167 and 167 of the Penal Code.

for not deliberately taking all possible measures within the limits of their authority to obtain,
sentenced to seven to fifteen years in prison.
(2) No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation.
for the issuance of another order or instruction with a clearly criminal offense aimed at the commission of the offenses set forth in the first part,
sentenced to ten to twenty-five years in prison.

8
Article
167 Illegal use of symbols protected by international treaties

Despite the requirements of international treaties during military operations, the Red Cross, the Red Crescent, or the cultural
the deliberate use of or protection of values ​from trademarks or other trademarks protected by international law;
for the use of the state flag or the flag or symbols of international organizations,
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to five years. ”
1 include
2
3
4 167,
5 167, 167,
6
7 167,8167, 167 of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015.
The Code should
Articles
167,
167,

in the wording - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4,144.

Article 168 Genocide

(1) Genocide, i.e. the killing of any member of a national, ethnic, sexual, or religious group of its members, is a serious injury to their health.
delivery, forced eviction, forced childbirth, coercion of children, or the complete physical abuse of such a group;
or aimed at complete or partial destruction by creating other habitats intended for partial destruction
for intentional acts,
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty years.
(2) Such acts, if they were committed in wartime,
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty-five years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4,144Article).

1 168 Ecosystem
Article

Mass destruction of flora or fauna, poisoning of the atmosphere, land or water resources, as well as environmental
for other acts that have caused or may have resulted in an accident
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
1 include 168 articles in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.
The Code should

Information, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 169 Don't hire

(1) The accumulation, training, financing or other financial provision of the payee, as well as the pay
the arrest of a detainee in an armed conflict or other military action, or by violating the constitutional structure or territorial integrity of the state;
for its use in violent acts aimed at change,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) Such acts shall be deemed to have taken place in a commercial or other manner in the case of a minor or in a state of service.
if done by a person acting as an executive in the organization or by the head of a public association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(Iii) Involvement of the mercenary in armed conflict or other military action, or in violation of the constitutional structure or territorial integrity of the state;
for participating in other acts of violence aimed at change,
sentenced to seven to ten years in prison.
(4) If the acts provided for in paragraph 3 of this Article have resulted in the death of persons or other adverse consequences,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to twenty-five years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
Note
He is not a citizen of a State engaged in armed conflict or military action, does not permanently reside in its territory, and that State
a person who is not authorized to perform official duties by and is employed for the purpose of receiving material rewards
is considered. "
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Page 6

1
Article
169 Calling for hire, to train hires

creating specialized locations
(1) Making calls for hire, if they are in the media,
use of electronic or information-telecommunications systems, including the Internet
with or by an official,
from the right to work in a particular position for up to three years or to engage in a particular job
sentenced to imprisonment for up to four years.
(2) The establishment of specialized areas for the training of conscientious objectors;
or the provision of houses or plots of land for such purposes, for such purposes
For the provision of Internet services,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.

2
Article
169 Participation in military conflicts or military operations abroad

For participation of a citizen of Turkmenistan in military conflicts or military operations abroad, if in this case Article 169 of this Code
if there are no signs of the offense provided for in Article
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
1 include
2
The Code should
Articles 169, 169 in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of Turkmenistan.

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 170 Attacking people taking advantage of international protection

(1) To a representative of a foreign state or an employee of an international organization enjoying international protection, as well as to international protection
if the occupants invade the service or residence or vehicle of the persons in question, if these acts are provoked by war or international
if it is done for the purpose of complicating their relationship, for this purpose,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(2) If such an act results in the death or other adverse consequences,
sentenced to ten to twenty-five years in prison.

SECTION IX CRIMES AGAINST THE STATE

CHAPTER 22. OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE STATE
CRIMES AGAINST FOUNDATIONS AND SECURITY

Article 171 Betrayal

(1) Betrayal of the state, i.e. the transfer of the citizen of Turkmenistan to the enemy during a deliberate military conflict,
as well as espionage, to the foreign state, international and foreign organizations or their representatives in the national
for giving or otherwise assisting state secrets to carry out hostile activities against their interests,
sentenced to ten to twenty-five years in prison.
(2) Such acts, if they were committed in wartime,
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty-five years.
Note
If the person who has committed the offenses provided for in this1 Article, as well as in Articles 172 and 174 of this Code, voluntarily and in accordance with this
timely notification to government agencies or assistance in preventing other ways of harming Turkmenistan's interests
if he has committed it and there is no other criminal element in his actions, then he is exempt from criminal liability. ”
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Article 172 Espionage

The transfer of information constituting a state secret to a foreign state, international or foreign organization or their representatives, as well as
their collection, theft or storage for the purpose of providing information, as well as the protection of information in the national interest of Turkmenistan;
their issuance or collection on the instructions of a foreign intelligence service for the purpose of harming them, if these acts are foreign
if done by a citizen or stateless person,
sentenced to ten to twenty-five years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Article 173 Disaster

(1) In order to destroy the security and defense capacity of Turkmenistan, the mass extermination of people, their health
damage to livelihoods of enterprises, facilities, roads and means of transport, means of communication, population
explosions, arson or other acts aimed at the destruction or damage of facilities, as well as those
for the purpose of mass poisoning for the purpose or for the spread of epidemics and epizootics,
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.
(2) Such acts, if they have resulted in the death of persons or other adverse consequences,
sentenced to ten to twenty-five years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Article 174 Conspiracy to seize power

(1) Who conspires to seize power and (or) to force a constitutional change;
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.
(2) If such an act results in the death or other grave consequences,
sentenced to ten to twenty-five years in prison.

1
Article
174 Occupation or seizure of state power

(1) to seize, seize or retain state power by violating the Constitution of Turkmenistan, as well as
For actions aimed at forcibly changing the constitutional structure of Turkmenistan,
shall be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to twenty-five years.
(2) Authorized bodies and officials of Turkmenistan by representatives of a foreign state, international or foreign organization
for the exercise of the powers of his people,
imposing a fine of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly wage, or imprisonment for up to four years;
deprivation is punishable.
1
Article 174 should
be added to the Code in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan

Information, 2015, No. __, Article ___.

Article 175 Calls for a violent change in the constitutional structure

(1) Who has made public calls for the violent seizure of power and (or) the violent change of the constitutional structure,
correctional labor up to two years or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) If the same act is committed again or again by an organized group or by the use of mass media,
sentenced to five years in prison.

1
Article
175 Armed uprising

The overthrow or violent change of the constitutional structure of Turkmenistan or the unity, territorial integrity of Turkmenistan, its
for organizing or participating in an armed uprising in order to violate its inviolability and inviolability,
sentenced to twelve to twenty years in prison.

2
Article
175 Open calls for extremist action

(1) whether open calls have been made to commit extremist acts or the mass dissemination of visible extremist materials;
as well as the fact that they were prepared or stored for mass distribution,
to be fined between one and two hundred percent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to four years
deprivation is punishable.
(2) Such acts are punishable by imprisonment if they do not provide access to the media, electronic or information and telecommunications systems, including
If it is done using the Internet,
imprisonment for a term of up to three years or imprisonment for a term of up to five years
deprivation is punishable.
(3) The publication of extremist materials in the press, including through other media outlets, including the Internet.
because it is allowed to be made or distributed,
for a period of three to five years, depriving him of the right to hold a certain position or to hold a particular position for up to three years;
is punishable by imprisonment. ”

3
Article
175 Actions aimed at violating the territorial integrity of Turkmenistan

(1) to violate the territorial integrity, inviolability and inviolability of Turkmenistan or to divide the state into constituents;
the promotion of targeted actions or open calls to do so, as well as the use of such content
for the purpose of distribution, storage or dissemination,
to impose a fine of one to two hundred per cent of the average monthly wage, or to a term of four to seven years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(2) Such acts are punishable by imprisonment if they do not provide access to the media, electronic or information and telecommunications systems, including
Administrative functions in commercial or other organizations using the Internet or using the service state
executor, head of a public association, a group of pre-linguists or an organized group
if done by
for a period of five to ten years, depriving him of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(3) to violate the territorial integrity, inviolability and inviolability of Turkmenistan or to divide the state into constituents;
for targeted actions,
sentenced to imprisonment from ten to fifteen years.
1
Articles 175, 175,
1752 of the3 Code should be added to the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of Turkmenistan

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 176 Assassination of the President of Turkmenistan

(1) committed suicide and health of the President of Turkmenistan,
sentenced to fifteen to twenty-five years in prison.
(2) insult or slander the President of Turkmenistan,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 177 Creating Social, National or Religious Enmity

(1) Intentionally aimed at creating social, national, ethnic, racial or religious enmity or membership, and discrimination against national dignity;
who committed acts, as well as the religious, social, national, ethnic, or sexual affiliation of citizens with their particular or
who preached that it was not fully valued,
shall be fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to three years.
deprivation is punishable.
(2) If such acts are committed by the use of the media,
shall be fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or two to four years.
sentenced to imprisonment.
(3) If the acts provided for in the first or second part of this article are committed by physical violence or by the threat of its use, such
and by an organized group,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

1
Article
177 Establishment of an extremist organization

(1) The creation of an extremist organization, as well as the acceptance by the court of their recognition of them as extremist.
for the organization or operation of such an organization or part thereof, which has been made and is a legally binding decision;
for a period of five to fifteen years, depriving him of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(2) The involvement of a person in the activities of an extremist organization, as well as the involvement of an extremist organization or the openness of its symbols;
as shown
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to ten years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they are committed by a juvenile or
a person or a public person who performs managerial functions in a commercial or other organization using a service position;
if made by the head of the association,
for a term of eight to fifteen years, depriving him of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
Note
A person who voluntarily ceases to participate in the activities of an extremist organization is a criminal if his or her actions do not constitute another crime.
exempt from liability.

2
Article
177 Financing extremism

(1) Financing the organization, preparation or conduct of extremist activities, as well as ensuring the functioning of the extremist organization;
the provision, collection, or provision of financial services for any purpose intended to do so, including teaching and
assistance by providing logistical support, telephone and other forms of communication, or by providing information services
because of
imposing a fine of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly salary or working for a certain position for up to three years
or imprisonment for up to three years with deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities.
(2) Such acts shall be deemed to have taken place in the capacity of a business or other organization if they have exercised a service position.
by the delivery person or the head of the public association, or by a group of people in advance, or on a large scale
if done
to impose a fine of between one and two hundred of the average monthly wage or on a certain position for three years;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to six years, deprivation of the right to work or employment.
Note
The person who has committed the offense provided for in this article, if he or she has not been notified in a timely manner to the state authorities or otherwise
helped to prevent extremist movements, as well as the activities of extremist organizations, if in his actions
is exempt from criminal liability if he or she is not a member of another offense.
1 of the
2 Code should be added to the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of Turkmenistan
Articles 177, 177

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 178 Disrespect of state symbols

The National Flag of Turkmenistan, the National Emblem (Emblem) of Turkmenistan or the National Anthem of Turkmenistan
disrespectful
is fined between ten and thirty of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.

Article 179 Illegal collection, disclosure and dissemination of state secrets

(1) Without the evidence of the offenses provided for in Articles 171 (treason) and 172 (espionage) of this Code.
theft of documents, bribery or intimidation of a person or persons close to him or her who has access to state secrets,
capturing the necessary information from the means of communication, illegal access to a computer system or network, special technical means
collection of information constituting state secrets through the use or other illegal means, as well as illegally collected state
to the dissemination of information constituting secrets,
imprisonment for up to three years or imprisonment for up to five years with deprivation of the right to work or employment
is punished.
(2) Information containing state secrets may be obtained from a person who has been entrusted or known to him or her by a service or business.
disclosure, unless there are signs of the offense provided for in Article 171 (treason) of this Code;
imprisonment for up to two years or imprisonment for up to three years with deprivation of the right to work or employment
is punished.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they have resulted in serious consequences,
imprisonment for a term of three years or eight years, depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to perform a certain job;
deprivation is punishable.
(4) The disclosure of information that contains a service secret with the commission of the acts provided for in the second part of this article, if
if they have had serious consequences,
the average monthly wage for a period of up to two years, depriving you of the right to work or to hold a particular job;
fines of up to two hundred rubles or imprisonment for up to two years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 180 Loss of documents, state secrets

(1) Documents or computer information that is a state secret entrusted to him by the service or work, as well as a state secret
to a person who has lost his or her information, if the specified documents, computer information or items are intended to be stored
lost in violation of the rules,
deprived of the right to work in correctional labor for up to two years or to hold a particular position for up to three years or to engage in a particular occupation
and sentenced to up to two years in prison.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they have resulted in serious consequences,
the average monthly wage, deprived of the right to work or hold a particular job for up to three years
fines up to two hundred rubles or up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to four years
is punished for doing.
(3) Loss of information contained in the service secret, including the conduct of the acts provided for in the first part of this Article, if they
if it has serious consequences,
payment of wages for up to two years with or without the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular job;
fined up to one hundredth of the average monthly salary, or up to one year of correctional work, or up to one year
sentenced to imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

SECTION X CRIMES AGAINST THE PROCEDURE OF ACTIVITY OF PUBLIC PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS

CHAPTER 23 TO THE BENEFITS OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE
CRIMES AGAINST

Article 181 Abuse of office powers

(1) A person who abuses his or her official powers, i.e., by exercising his or her official powers in the interests of service by the official;
to the abused, if this act is done in a selfish or other personal interest and violates the rights of citizens, organizations or the state
and a serious violation of their legitimate interests,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
is fined between thirty and seventy of the average monthly salary or is employed for a certain period of time up to three years
or imprisonment for a term of three to five years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity;
is given.
(2) If such an act results in serious consequences,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
is fined between seventy and two hundred of the average monthly amount of payment, or in a particular position for up to three years
for a period of five to eight years without being deprived or deprived of the right to work or engage in a particular activity;
to impose a duty of residence or to deprive one of the right to hold a particular position or to hold a particular job for up to three years, or
sentenced to eight years in prison without imprisonment.
Note.
1. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the duties of representatives of the authorities on permanent, temporary or special powers.
as well as in government agencies, local self-government bodies, state-owned enterprises, institutions, or
in organizations, as well as in the Armed Forces, in other armies and in military units, organizational-administrative, administrative-economic
or people who exercise their supervisory powers.
2. In this Code, a public servant is a person who holds the position specified in the list of civil servants and is a civil servant.
is considered to be the person carrying out the work on the implementation of its functions. Working in government agencies and servicing those institutions
people who perform or perform auxiliary functions are not included in the ranks of civil servants.
3. The people of a province, a district, a city in the manner established by the legislation of Turkmenistan as a person equal to a civil servant in this Code.
citizens, elected to the Councils, elected to the elected state positions, as well as in the authorized capital
state-owned enterprises, organizations with less than twenty-five percent share of organizational-administrative, administrative-economic, or
people are considered to exercise their supervisory powers.
(Of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014, June 3, 2017, August 26, and November 30, 2019
In the wording of its laws - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, Article 77; 2017, No. 2, Article 75; No. 3, 106Article; 2019, No. 4, Article ___).

1
Article
181 Betrayal

(1) Abuse of official powers by a public official or a civil servant or a person equated to him;
betrayal of the oath formally accepted by the use of it, if the act is committed in a selfish or other personal interest, and
if it leads to a serious violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the legitimate interests of society and the state,
deprivation of the right to work or employment for a period of up to five years, or up to three years
for a period of up to five years, with or without deprivation of the right to work or to hold a particular position;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(2) If such an act results in serious consequences,
for a period of up to three years, with or without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for a term of five years;
sentenced to imprisonment for up to ten years.
1
Article 181 should
be added to the Code in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.

Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77.
(In the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 30, 2019 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2019, No. 4, ___Article).

2
Article
181 Illegal transfer of land

(1) Violation of land ownership by an official, including state-owned land plots;
lease or use without formalization in the prescribed manner, if these acts are motivated by greed or other personal gain;
if done
for a period of up to three years, depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is fined between twenty and one hundred of the average monthly salary, or is employed for a certain period of time up to three years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for up to one year, with deprivation of the right to engage in the same activity.
(2) The act provided for in the first part of this article, if he:
a) again;
b) if it was committed by a group of people in advance;
for a period of up to three years, depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is fined between fifty and one hundred and fifty percent of the average salary, or is employed for a certain period of time up to three years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years, with deprivation of the right to engage in the same activity.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

2
Article
181 is excluded - in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - (Parliament of Turkmenistan

Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77).

Article 182 Going beyond the scope of their powers

(1) A person who has gone beyond the scope of his / her official powers, i.e., the official has committed acts that are clearly beyond the scope of his / her official powers.
and the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, organizations, or the legitimate interests of society or the state,
if it has caused serious damage,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
fines ranging from twenty to forty per month, or up to two years of correctional labor, or up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment up to.
(2) He did so if:
(a) if it is committed in an act that violates the personal dignity of the victim;
(b) committed with the use of physical violence;
c) with the use of weapons or special means;
d) if it results in serious consequences,
for a period of up to three years, depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
fined from fifty to two hundred of the average monthly salary, or to a certain position for up to three years, or a certain
deprivation of the right to work and the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of five to eight years or three years
imprisonment for a term of three to eight years, depriving him of the right to hold a position or to hold a particular position until
is punished for doing.

1
Article
182 Torture

(1) Torture, i.e. by an official or other person who is officially speaking, or whether they are aware and authorized, or
obtaining or obtaining information from someone or a third party with the consent of a third party, his or her third party
punishing a person for an act committed or suspected of doing so, as well as intimidating or coercing him or a third party;
intentionally or for any reason based on discrimination of any kind, whether intentionally aggravated or physically or
because of his moral suffering,
imprisonment for a term of three years or eight years, depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to perform a certain job;
deprivation is punishable.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if:
a) in the case of women, minors or persons who openly express symptoms of disability;
(b) in the case of a person who is in a state of misery, or in the case of a vulnerable person;
(c) in the case of two or more persons;
(d) by two or more persons without preliminary communication or by a group of persons on preliminary communication;
(e) in respect of that person or his or her close relatives in connection with the performance of his or her official or public duty;
f) with the use of weapons or special means (objects, equipment, tools, etc.);
(f) In the event of a threat of war or war, internal political instability or any other emergency or martial law;
imprisonment for a term of up to three years or imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, depriving him of the right to hold a certain position or occupation;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this article, if they are due to negligence in the death or other
if it has serious consequences,
imprisonment for a term of up to three years or imprisonment for a term of eight years to fifteen years;
deprivation is punishable.
Note
A person may be subjected to severe pain as a result of legal action (necessary protection, etc.) or physically or morally.
cannot be prosecuted.
The Code was 1introduced in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2012, to be included in Article 182 - of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.
Information, 2012, No. 3-4, Article 66.

Article 183 Seizing the powers of an official

If a non-official public servant has the powers of an official and he or she exercises these powers, the citizens,
for actions that violate the rights and legitimate interests of organizations or the state,
is fined between ten and thirty times the average monthly wage, or up to three years in a particular position;
the penalty of employment or correctional labor for up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity
is given.

Article 184 Bribery

(1) Because the bribe-taker or those who represent him have done (or have not done) the work for the benefit of the broker, he or she may
money, securities, bribes in the form of other property or profits of property through a person, if such activity
if the completion (non-completion) falls within the competence of the official or the possibility of the official position to complete the work
to the extent that it may affect (incompleteness),
by depriving him of his property for free for a period of three years or by depriving him of the right to engage in certain occupations, or
to be obliged to live in a particular place for a period of five to eight years without pay, or to hold a certain position for three years, or
imprisonment for up to eight years without deprivation of liberty or deprivation of liberty by deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities;
deprivation is punishable.
(2) He did so if:
a) repeated;
(b) committed by a group of persons or an organized group for preliminary communication;
c) by an official in charge;
d) bribery with intimidation;
e) in large quantities,
to impose the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving the property free of charge or for three years;
by taking his property for free or free of charge, by depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a certain activity until
however, he is sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.
(3) The act provided for in the first part of this article, if he:
a) in a particularly large amount;
(b) if committed by a criminal association;
by depriving him of his property for free for a period of three years or by depriving him of the right to engage in certain occupations, or
sentenced to ten to twenty years without parole.
Note:
1. If a large amount of bribes is a particularly large amount of bribes, which exceeds the average monthly wage.
the amount of money exceeding two hundred of the average monthly wage, the value of securities, other property or property;
the value of profit is considered.
2. Repeated offenses under Articles 184, 185 and 186 of this Code shall be deemed to have committed one or more of the offenses provided for in these Articles.
if it is considered.
(In edition of the Laws of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013, June 3, 2017 and August 26, 2017 Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, Article 77; 2017, No. 2, Article 75; No. 3, Article 106).

1
Article
184 Corruption

(1) Corruption - by individuals or groups of persons by one or more officials with authority
through the establishment of stable illegal relations, the competence of the civil servants or the opportunities associated with them;
misappropriation of money, valuables, other property or property services for himself or third parties, other property
for intentional acts that threaten public and state interests in order to benefit in the form of rights,
for up to three years without depriving or depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years.
(2) If such an act is committed in the interests of an organized group or a criminal association or results in other serious consequences,
for up to three years without depriving or depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of twelve to twenty years.
Note.
Corruption-related crimes include money, valuables, other property or property services, and other property rights.
Articles 181, 184–187 of this Code, paragraph 229 (3) of the third part of Article 228 of this Code, made for the benefit of
in paragraph "c" of the second part of the article and in connection with it in the third and fourth parts of this article, Article 242
in the second part of paragraph "ch" and in connection therewith in the third part of this article, in paragraph "ch" of Article 245, in Article 254
The offenses set forth in paragraphs (3) and (358) of the second and fourth sections shall be deemed to be offenses.
The Code was1amended in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of November 30, 2019 to include Article 184 - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.
Information, 2019, No. 4, Article __.

Article 185 Bribery

(1) Whoever bribes an official by himself or by an intermediary;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) Whoever repeats such an act,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
If there is a threat of bribery in respect of the person who gave the bribe, or if this person has the right to initiate a criminal case on bribery
the person who gave the bribe will be released from criminal liability if he or she voluntarily notifies the existing authority.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 186 Bribery (brokerage)

(1) Intermediate in receiving or giving bribes,
is punishable by imprisonment for two to five years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) If the same act is committed again or again by an official,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
A person who acts as a broker in bribery or bribery should initiate a criminal case on interference in bribery or bribery.
if he voluntarily notifies the competent authority or official, he shall be released from criminal liability.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 187 Service fraud

Service fraud, i.e., official misrepresentation of official documents by an official as well as a non-official
for the inclusion of information, as well as for the inclusion of corrections that distort their true content in the specified documents, if these actions
if it is done out of greed or other personal gain, for this reason,

remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
is fined between thirty and seventy of the average monthly salary or is employed for a certain period of time up to three years
or is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).
Page 7

Article 188 Cold

(1) A person who is cold-blooded, i.e., that the official has not done so as a result of his or her negligence or negligence in his or her conduct, or
because its implementation is not appropriate, if it is a violation of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, organizations or
if it has caused a serious violation of the legitimate interests of the society or the state,
is deprived of the right to work or hold a particular position for a term of up to five years or to be paid
is fined between ten and thirty times the average monthly salary or is punishable by up to two years of correctional labor.
(2) If such an act of negligence results in the death of a person or other serious consequences,
to work for a period of up to three years without depriving or depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is fined between twenty and one hundred of the average monthly salary, or in a particular position for up to three years
imprisonment for up to five years with or without deprivation of the right to work or employment
is given.

CHAPTER 24. CRIMES AGAINST JUSTICE

Article 189 Preventing the implementation of a fair trial and the production of a preliminary investigation

(1) Interferes in any way with the proceedings of the court in order to prevent the exercise of a fair trial;
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) In order to prevent a comprehensive, complete and objective investigation of the case, the prosecutor, the investigator, or the person conducting the investigation;
involved in any form of business,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(3) If the acts provided for in the first or second part of this article are committed by a person who has taken advantage of his or her official position,
from the right to work in correctional work for up to two years, or to hold a certain position for a period of up to three years, or to engage in a particular work
sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years without imprisonment or imprisonment.

Article 190 Threats or acts of violence against a person conducting a fair trial or preliminary investigation

(1) A judge, a juror, in connection with the consideration of a case or material in a court of law or in connection with a preliminary investigation or inquiry;
to kill the prosecutor, the investigator, the investigator, the lawyer, the expert, as well as their loved ones, to harm their health,
threatening to destroy or destroy property,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) In connection with the consideration of cases or materials in court, or in connection with the conduct of a preliminary investigation or inquiry, the first of this article
to the use of non-life-threatening violence by persons referred to in section,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) The first part of this article relates to the consideration of cases or materials in court or to a preliminary investigation or inquiry.
to the use of violence endangering the life or health of the persons referred to in section,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

Article 191 Ignoring the court

(1) Who disregards the participants of the judicial review, disregards the court, or disobeys the order of the presiding judge,
if this leads to a breach of the court order,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) If such an act has been mocked in connection with the work of a judge or a jury in the exercise of justice,
for this
is fined between fifteen and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.

Article 192 Defamation of a judge, jury, prosecutor, investigator or detective

(1) Defendant in connection with the proceedings of a judge or a jury in the administration of justice,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
is punishable by employment in their work.
(2) Such an act is related to a preliminary investigation or inquiry into a prosecutor, investigator or person conducting an inquiry.
if done, for this,
is fined between fifteen and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.
(3) The offenses provided for in the first or second part of this article shall be deemed to have resulted in the commission of serious or particularly serious offenses against a person.
if done together,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 193 Prosecution of a visibly innocent person

(1) When a conspicuous innocent person is prosecuted,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) If such an act has been committed in connection with the commission of a serious or particularly grave crime,
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.

Article 194 Illegal release from criminal liability

A person suspected or charged with a crime by a prosecutor, investigator or detective shall be held criminally liable.
if released illegally,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 195 Illegal detention, detention, or detention

(1) If you are caught illegally,
is deprived of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to five years or to be corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(2) Apparently illegally detained or detained,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(3) If the acts provided for in the first or second part of this article have serious consequences,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 196 Illegal release from places of detention or deprivation of liberty

Visible illicit release from places of detention or deprivation of liberty, as well as imprisonment or imprisonment
who helped them escape from their places,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 197 Forcing to give instructions

(1) Suspicion by intimidation, false threats or other illegal acts by a prosecutor, investigator or detective
because the accused, the accused, the victim, the witness are compelled to testify or the expert is compelled to give a conclusion,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) If the same act was committed by the use or harassment of a person,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 198 Making a judgment, decision, determination or decision without a clear fair trial

(1) For the issuance of a judgment, decision, determination or decision by a judge (s) without a fair trial;
sentenced to five years in prison.
(2) If such an act is related to an illegal court ruling on deprivation of liberty or to serious consequences.
if he brings
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.

Article 199 Bribery or bribery

Stimulation of bribery or commerce in order to artificially create evidence of a crime or false threat,
the consent, i.e., to the official or to the person performing administrative duties in a commercial or other organization, his or her consent;
who has attempted to transfer money, securities, other property, or to render him or her property services,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.

Article 200 Explicit lying

(1) A person who has been convicted of a felony,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) Such an action may be deemed to have resulted in a person being convicted of a serious, particularly serious or corruption-related offense or artificially charged.
if it is done in conjunction with the creation of evidence, as well as for the purpose of greed,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and May 3, 2014 - the Mejlis of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 2, Article 77).

Article 201 Explicit false testimony, expert judgment or misinterpretation

(1) In the course of a preliminary investigation or preliminary investigation, or in a court of law, a witness or a witness who has made a clear false statement, or
if the expert makes a clearly false conclusion, as well as in such cases the translator is clearly incorrect,
up to one year in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to one year.
(2) Such actions are intended to induce or accuse a person of committing a serious, particularly serious, or corruption-related crime.
if it is done by creating artificial evidence, as well as for malicious purposes,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 202 Witness or victim's refusal to testify

If a witness or victim refuses to testify,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
Note.
A person who refuses to testify against himself or his close relatives cannot be held criminally liable.

Article 203 Forcing or giving false instructions or forging false conclusions or misinterpreting

(1) For the purpose of giving false testimony to the suspect, the accused, the witness, the victim, or the expert to mislead or mislead
to instruct them, as well as to misinterpret the translator, in order to do so,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) Threatening the suspect, the accused, the witness, the victim, the threat of death, the death of those persons or their loved ones;
to misrepresent, endanger or destroy the property, to misrepresent the expert, or
forcing the translator to translate incorrectly,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(3) provided for in the second part of this article, which has been carried out through non-life-threatening violence against the persons and persons
to the one who is caught,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(4) Charges of violence that are dangerous to the lives and health of the persons in question, as well as of corruption-related offenses;
the perpetrator provided for in the second part of this article,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 204 Disclosure of preliminary investigation or identification information

(1) A person who has been warned in the prescribed manner that it is not possible to disclose the information of the preliminary investigation or diagnosis,
if unauthorized disclosure is made from that prosecutor, investigator or detective,
is fined between ten and thirty of the average monthly wage or with a term of up to two years
correctional labor is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) If such action has had serious consequences,
sentenced to imprisonment for a term of up to five years.

Article 205 Disclosure of agency information

(1) At the time of the commission of the trust entrusted to them or the occurrence of a crime, the prevention of a crime, or the investigation of a crime committed;
because the information they have known has been leaked by an employee of the criminal justice system;
is deprived of the right to work or engage in a particular job for up to five years, or the average salary
is fined from twenty to forty rupees a month.
(2) Such action, if it is based on greed or other personal interests,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) If the actions provided for in the first or second part of this article have resulted in serious consequences,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 206 Illegal actions with respect to property that is subject to transfer (opis) or immovable or free of charge

(1) that the property on which the record has been transferred or immovable or is subject to free admission has been expended, received by the trustee,
bank transactions with secrecy or illegal transfer, as well as immovable cash (deposits)
because it was carried out by an employee of the organization,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) For the purpose of concealing or transferring property subject to a free seizure under the judgment of the court, as well as the property
who has refused to comply with the judgment of the court of appointment of a free receipt,
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.

Article 207 Escape from places of imprisonment or detention

(1) A person who is serving his or her sentence or is being held in a pre-trial detention facility has escaped from places of imprisonment or detention;
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) The following action shall be taken:
a) again;
b) by a group of people or an organized group with a preliminary communication;
c) with the use of violence endangering the life or health of the person;
(d) for the use of weapons or the use of objects as weapons;
sentenced to three to six years in prison.

1
Article
207 Immediate refusal to impose a penalty in the form of imposing the duty to live in a particular place

To a person who reluctantly commits a penalty in the form of imposing a duty to live in a particular place,
with a fine of twenty-five to fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or with a term of up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
Note.
Immediate refusal to impose a penalty in the form of a duty to live in a particular place within the meaning of this article
administrative sanctions against him or her were committed twice a year for such a violation,
is understood to be a refusal to incur the specified form of punishment.

Article 208 Refusal to impose a penalty in the form of imprisonment

A person who is allowed to leave the territory of a place of imprisonment for a short time and is sentenced to imprisonment shall be punished.
refuses to complete the withdrawal period,
sentenced to up to one year in prison.

Article 209 Failure to comply with the court's decision

Entered into legal force by a representative of the government, a civil servant, as well as an employee of a business or other organization
failure to comply with a judgment, decision, decision or determination, as well as objection to their execution;
for
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
fines ranging from ten to thirty per month or fined up to two years in correctional labor.

Article 210 Failure to report or conceal a crime

(1) It shall be deemed to have been prepared to commit serious or particularly serious offenses or to have committed such offenses.
without reporting
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to five years.
(2) A person who conceals serious or particularly serious offenses without prior consent;
up to two years in correctional labor or up to eight years in prison.

CHAPTER 25 AGAINST THE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE
CRIMES

Article 211 Threats or violence against a law enforcement officer or a military officer

(1) A law enforcement officer, a military officer, or a law enforcement officer in connection with the performance of his or her duties to maintain law and order;
that their loved ones were threatened with death, or that there was no danger to the life or health of the person;
because it is used
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) To a person who uses violence that is dangerous to the life or health of the persons referred to in the first part of this article;
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 212 Mocking a government official

In the performance of their official duties or in connection with their performance, a representative of the public
ridiculed,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
Note.
A representative of the government is a representative of a public authority, who performs certain or permanent functions on a regular basis and has his or her own
within the bounds of their authority to make or be obligatory for most or all of the citizens or officials
is considered a person who enjoys the right to give.

1
Article
212 Illegal creation or participation in public and other associations

(1) Citizens who intend to forcibly change the constitutional structure, to allow the use of violence in their work,
those who oppose their constitutional rights and freedoms, including the use of violence against citizens or otherwise
prejudice to the health and moral character of the people, which is detrimental to their health, war, skin color, national, religious enmity
as well as the political arousal of the intention of citizens to refuse to perform civil duties or to commit other illegal acts.
parties, other public associations, religious organizations, as well as national or religious symbols, as well as
for the establishment or management of political parties funded from sources prohibited by law,
the average monthly wage, deprived of the right to work or hold a particular job for up to three years
shall be punished with a fine of from fifty to one hundred rubles or imprisonment for a term of up to five years.
(2) For their active participation in the activities of public and other associations referred to in the first part of this Article,

a fine in the amount of forty to sixty per cent of the average monthly wage;
or up to one year of correctional work or up to one year
sentenced to imprisonment.
2
Article
212 Illegal interference of public associations in the work of government agencies

(1) Violence by members of public associations, including religious organizations
or government agencies associated with the threat of its use and their
the interference of the officials in the legal proceedings or the seizure of their powers, so to speak
and the establishment of political party organizations in public institutions, if these citizens
or the rights or legitimate interests of organizations or the community or the state.
if it has caused serious harm to the interests protected by law,

imposition of a fine of twenty-five to fifty percent of the average monthly salary or correction of the term for up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to one year.

(2) The public associations of the acts provided for in the first part of this article, those
including because it was done by the leaders of religious organizations,
from the right to work in a particular position for up to three years or to engage in a particular job
the average monthly wage of labor without deprivation or deprivation
fine from thirty to sixty or correction for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
1
2
Articles 212, 212
of the
Code should be added in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of Turkmenistan

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 213 Violation of the normal functioning of the institution, which ensures isolation from society

(1) Punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty in respect of an employee of the place of detention or the place of detention;
or rape by a detainee, as well as impediment to his or her correction in the event of a conviction by such person.
if he has been raped for the purpose of extradition or for the purpose of retaliating for his performance of public duties,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(2) If such acts have been repeated, the person in the preliminary language group or by an organized group, or
if it is done using violence that is dangerous to a person’s life or health,
sentenced to ten to twenty years in prison.

Article 214 Illegal crossing of the State Border of Turkmenistan

(1) Passing through the protected State border of Turkmenistan without the established documents and without the appropriate permission,
up to two years in correctional work or two years to five years with or without the burden of living in a particular place
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.
(2) with a group of people for repeated or preliminary speaking, or with violence by an organized group, or
illegally crossing the protected State border of Turkmenistan, threatening to use force,
the penalty of imprisonment for a term of two to five years with or without the burden of living in a particular place;
is given.
Note.
This Article shall be binding on foreign citizens in accordance with the Constitution of Turkmenistan and on the right to political asylum.
In cases of stateless persons crossing the State Border of Turkmenistan and coming to Turkmenistan, if that
it does not apply if there is no other sign of crime in the actions of the people.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 215 Illegal modification of the State Border of Turkmenistan

(1) The border markings have been removed, relocated or destroyed in order to change the State Border of Turkmenistan in violation of the rules;
if
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) If such actions have been repeated or have resulted in serious consequences,
sentenced to up to four years in prison.

Article 216 Official documents or illegal acts in respect of state awards

Official documents granting or releasing rights, state awards of Turkmenistan, the USSR or the Turkmen SSR
to buy, sell, exchange or otherwise give them to someone else for a fee, for this purpose,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 217 Theft or damage to documents, stamps, seals or blanks

(1) Theft, destruction of official documents, stamps, seals or blanks based on greed or other personal interests;
damage or concealment, for this reason,
is fined between fifteen and thirty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to one year.
(2) Documents of special significance, stamps, seals, blanks, or similar actions that have resulted in serious consequences.
due to
sentenced to up to two years in prison.
(3) The theft of a citizen's passport or other important personal document,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.

Article 218 Counterfeit documents, stamps, seals, forms forged, fabricated, sold or falsified
use the document

(1) A certificate or other document granting or releasing a lien for the purpose of its use or otherwise
for the purpose of selling the document, as well as the manufacture or sale of counterfeit stamps, seals, forms for those purposes,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) When such actions are repeated,
sentenced to up to four years in prison.
(3) Due to the use of a forged document,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.

Article 219 Refusal of conscription

(1) A person who denies such service in the absence of a legal basis for his release from conscription;
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) The same may be done by injuring or attempting to injure his own test, by forgery of documents, or by any other lie;
who did what he did
sentenced to one to four years in prison.
(3) Refusing conscription or mobilization during military service;
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.

Article 220 Unauthorized possession of the official name or authority of an official

Unauthorized possession of the official name or authority of the official, in connection with which any public
who acted dangerously,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

Article 221 Arbitrariness

Arbitration, i.e., the exercise of one's real or implied right by one's own and legal or other regulatory legal act.
if the violation of the procedure established by the law causes serious harm to the citizen or the organization,
labor remuneration is a fine of from ten to twenty per cent of the average salary, or in correctional labor up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 222 Deliberate violation of administrative control rules

(1) intentionally violates the rules of administrative oversight in order not to comply with such oversight,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to one year in prison.
(2) the voluntary abandonment of the place of residence of the person under surveillance in order to refuse administrative supervision,
as well as the fact that in the event of his release from the place of imprisonment, the person to whom the administrative control is assigned shall be entitled to a reasonable period of time.
not to come to the place of residence shown to him without cause, for this reason,
sentenced to one to three years in prison.
Note.
Such violations are referred to as intentional violations of administrative control rules in the sense of the first part of this article.
for violations of those rules by a person who has been subjected to administrative sanctions twice a year.

Article 223 Violation of the procedure for organizing and holding meetings, gatherings, marches

Violation of the statutory procedure for the organization and holding of meetings, gatherings, marches, so that their organizer
if administrative penalties for actions have been taken after application,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor up to one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or six months in prison.

1
Article
223 is repealed.
2
Article
223 is repealed.

Article 224 Illegal hoisting of the National Flag of Turkmenistan on a merchant ship

Since the flag was hoisted without the right to the National Flag of Turkmenistan on the merchant ship,
shall be fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to one year.
deprivation is punishable.

Article 225 Illegal use of Red Cross and Red Crescent symbols

Illegal use of the Red Cross and Red Crescent symbols, as well as the name of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent,
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 226 is excluded - in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - (Parliament of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77).

SECTION XI. CRIMES IN THE FIELD OF ECONOMY

CHAPTER 26. CRIMES AGAINST PROPERTY

Article 227 Theft

(1) Whoever steals, i.e., steals someone else's property in secret,
is fined between ten and fifty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.
(2) To the thief in the following cases:
a) was committed by a group of people on preliminary language communication;
b) again;
Page 8

(c) burglary has been infiltrated into a dwelling, other house or storage facility;
d) the theft has caused significant damage to the citizen;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) In the case of the thief:
(a) with substantial damage;
(b) was stolen by an organized group;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to twelve years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(4) To the thief in the following cases:
(a) with a particularly large amount of damage;
(b) Theft by a criminal association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
Notes.
1. The provisions of this Code shall mean theft, free of charge, and (or) the unlawful taking of a stranger's property, or
to the benefit of others, to the detriment of the private or to the other owner of that property, carried out for the purpose of greed;
is understood to be delivered.
2. The amount of property referred to in the articles of this chapter shall be the amount of property that exceeds the average monthly amount of remuneration of labor.
price; a particularly large amount is considered to be the value of the property, which exceeds two hundred of the average monthly wage.
Until the time of the crime, the average monthly wage is calculated when the amount of damage is calculated.
Understand the average level of wages established by the legislation of Turkmenistan, for long-term and ongoing crimes
if so, according to the law until the end of the criminal act or until the last moment of the commission of the crime.
understood as the average wage.
3. A crime committed under Articles 227-233 of this Code shall be deemed to have committed one or more of the offenses provided for in these Articles.
is considered a crime committed by a person who has committed it before, as well as for the theft of radioactive materials for piracy or
intimidation, theft or intimidation of weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosive devices, drugs or
who has previously committed one of the offenses in which he is responsible for theft or intimidation of psychotropic substances.
considered a crime committed by a person.

Article 228 Fraud

(1) A person who possesses another's property or obtains a right to that property by deception or abuse of trust, i.e.
liar
is fined between thirty and sixty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) In such cases, the deceiver,
a) was committed by a group of people on preliminary language communication;
b) again;
c) if it has been committed with a significant amount of damage to the citizen;
one to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to five years without taking or receiving property for free;
is punished.
(3) Whoever cheated in the following cases:
(a) with substantial damage;
b) by an organized group;
c) by a civil servant or a person equated to him by the use of his official position;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(4) If a particularly large amount of damage has been caused as a result of fraud,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(Laws of Turkmenistan of November 26, 2010, May 3, 2014 and June 3, 2017)
in the wording - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2010, No. 4, Article 72, 2014, No. 2, Article 77; 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 229 Possession or Expenditure of Trusted Property

(1) The possession or expenditure, i.e. theft, of the property of another entrusted or under the custody of the offender,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
is fined between thirty and sixty of the average monthly salary or is employed for a certain period of time up to three years
or to work in correctional labor for up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity, or up to three years
for a period of two years with or without deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for a period of time;
sentenced to imprisonment up to.
(2) The following actions shall be taken in the following cases:
a) was committed by a group of people on preliminary language communication;
b) again;
c) by the use of his official position by a public servant or a person equated to him;
d) if it has been committed with substantial damage to the citizen;
by depriving him of his property for free for a period of three years or by depriving him of the right to engage in certain occupations, or
without pay, a fine of up to fifty percent of the average monthly wage or up to three years
by depriving him of his property for free or without charge, by depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular occupation,
with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of five to seven years, or to work in a particular position for three years, or with a particular job
imprisonment for up to five years without deprivation of liberty or deprivation of liberty
is given.
(3) When the actions provided for in the first or second part of this article are committed in the following cases:
(a) with substantial damage;
b) by the use of his official position by a person holding a public office;
forfeiture of property for a period of up to three years or deprivation of the right to hold a particular position;
or a fine of from one hundred to one hundred and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage without pay, or up to three years
by taking his property for free or free of charge, for a period of time, by depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
without the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of five to eight years, or to work in a particular position for a period of up to three years, or
deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity, for three to eight years without taking or receiving the property free of charge;
sentenced to life imprisonment.
(4) When the actions provided for in the first, second or third paragraph of this article are committed in the following cases:
(a) with a particularly large amount of damage;
(b) if committed by an organized group or a criminal association;
forfeiture of property for a period of up to three years or deprivation of the right to hold a particular position;
or a duty to reside in a particular place for a period of six to twelve years without a free receipt, or a fixed term of up to three years.
by depriving him of his property for free or without charge, by depriving him of the right to work or to perform certain duties, six
sentenced to imprisonment from one to twelve years.
Note.
If, for the first time, a person who commits the offenses provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this article has assisted in the detection of the offense and
if he is compensated for the damage done, he is released from the punishment in the form of imprisonment.
(November 9, 2013, March 1, 2014, May 3, and November 30, 2019
In the wording of the Laws - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 1, Article 44, No. 2, 77Article; 2019, No. 4, Article ___).

Article 230 Robbery

(1) To the one who plundered, i.e., openly stole the property of a stranger,
one to two years in correctional labor or up to three years in prison.
(2) To the robber in the following cases:
a) was committed by a group of people on preliminary language communication;
b) again;
c) by entering a dwelling, another house or a storage house;
(d) by resorting to violence that is not dangerous to the life or health of the victim, or by endangering the use of such violence;
e) if it has been committed with substantial harm to the citizen;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) When the robbery is committed in the following cases:
a) in large quantities;
b) if done by an organized group,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to twelve years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(4) When the robbery is committed in the following cases:
(a) with a particularly large amount of damage;
(b) by a criminal association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 231 Robbery

(1) The use or coercion of a person endangering the life or health of another person for the purpose of seizing another's property;
who has committed an attack (robbery), including the threat of use,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) The robbery committed:
a) by a group of pre-speech people;
(b) by entering a dwelling, another dwelling, or a dwelling;
c) by the use of weapons or the use of other objects as weapons;
d) repeat;
e) if it has been committed with significant damage to the citizen;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) In the event of robbery in the following cases:
a) with extensive damage;
b) if it has been hijacked by an organized group,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to twelve years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(4) In the event of a robbery in the following cases:
(a) with a particularly large amount of damage;
b) by a criminal association;
c) if the robbery has been committed with serious injury to the health of the victim,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 8, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 4, 145Article).

Article 232 Intimidation

(1) Doing the property of a stranger or other acts related to property or property to the victim or his or her loved ones;
the right to surrender his or her rights at the risk of violence or the destruction or destruction of a stranger's property, as well as the victim
or one who threatens to intimidate or intimidate his or her loved ones,
imprisonment for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to four years without taking or receiving property for free;

is given.
(2) The following action shall be taken:
a) by a group of pre-speech people;
b) again;
c) if it was done by force,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) The perpetrator of the intimidation in the following cases:
a) by an organized group or by a criminal association;
(b) It is committed with serious damage to the health of the victim;
c) if it is done for the purpose of obtaining large amounts of property,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 233 Theft of items of special value

(1) Regardless of the manner in which it is acquired, it may contain items of special historical, scientific, artistic, or cultural value, or
because the documents were stolen,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) The following action shall be taken:
a) again;
b) committed by an organized group or a criminal association;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 234 Illegal possession of someone else's vehicle

(1) Illegal possession (seizure) of another's vehicle, if there is no intent to steal it,
is fined between ten and thirty of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to three years in prison.
(2) The following action shall be taken:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) by resorting to violence that is not dangerous to the life or health of the victim, or by threatening to use such violence;
(d) with extensive damage;
e) if the thing is done by entering the storage room,
is fined between fifty and one hundred percent of the average monthly wage, or two to five years.
sentenced to imprisonment.
(3) The actions provided for in the first or second part of this article are violence that is dangerous to the life or health of the victim.
use of or threatening to commit such violence,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

Article 235 Deliberate destruction or destruction of property

(1) A person who knowingly destroys or damages another person's property, causing substantial damage;
is fined between five and twenty-five times the average monthly wage or adjusted for up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) Such actions:
(a) in the case of arson, explosion or any other method of general danger;
(b) if a person has died due to negligence or has had other serious consequences;
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 236 Destruction or destruction of property due to negligence

(1) A person who, in a negligent manner, has destroyed or damaged a person's property in large quantities;
from five to fifteen of the average monthly amount of the burden of compensation or remuneration for damages
fined or fined up to two years in correctional labor.
(2) Similar acts committed by carelessness with fire or anything other than high-risk or resulting in serious consequences;
edene,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

Article 237 Purchase or sale of property seized by a clearly criminal offense

(1) Purchase or retention of property seized in a clearly criminal manner without prior consent;
is fined between ten and twenty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) Whoever commits such acts on a large scale,
is fined between thirty and seventy-five of the average monthly wage or adjusted for up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(3) to a person who sells property seized in a clearly criminal manner without prior consent,
is fined between forty and one hundred percent of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to three years in prison.
(4) Who has committed the acts provided for in the third part of this Article in the following cases:
a) again;
b) in large quantities;
c) by a group of pre-linguists or by an organized group;
shall be fined between fifty and one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to five years.
deprivation is punishable.
Note.
In the event that this article exceeds the average monthly amount of remuneration of property seized by a clearly criminal offense.
used.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

CHAPTER 27. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
CRIMES AGAINST ORDER

Article 238 Obstruction of legal entrepreneurship

Unlawful refusal to register a business entity or refusal to register a business entity
illegal refusal to issue a special permit (license) to be transferred or to refuse to issue it, the sole
the unlawful restriction of the rights of the entrepreneur or commercial organization, as well as the illegal interference in their business, if so
if the actions were carried out by an official using his or her official position, for this purpose,
deprivation of the right to work or occupy a certain position for a period of five years, or the payment of wages;
is fined between five and twenty times the average monthly wage, or is punishable by up to two years in correctional labor
is given.

Article 239 Illegal business

In the event that a special permit (license) is required without state registration and such a permit is required,
in connection with the absence of a (license) or the receipt of a particularly large amount of income due to violation of the terms of the license
for the conduct of business,
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
Note
1. In this Article, a special amount of income shall be deemed to be one in the amount of more than five hundred of the average monthly wage.
income earned over the year is considered.
1
2. The person who committed the offenses set
forth in Articles 239-241, 243-244, 245, 247-251, 255-263 of this Code for the first time, if he or she is a physical and legal person

if the person or the state has fully compensated for the damage and has twice the amount of the damage caused by the state.
if he pleads guilty, he is released from criminal liability for the crime he committed.
(Laws of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013, November 8, 2014 and June 8, 2019
in the wording - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, Article 77; 2014, No. 4, Article 145; 2019, No. 2-3, No. 27
substance).

Article 240 Illegal banking

(1) The absence of such a permit (license) without registration or in the case of the necessity of a special permit (license)
or in violation of the terms of the license, if that act has caused great harm to the citizens, organizations or the state, or
for the conduct of banking activities (banking operations) in connection with the receipt of income in the amount of
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(2) Such action:
a) by a group of people in advance or by an organized group;
b) if it is made in connection with a particularly large amount of income;
is fined between one and two hundred percent of the average monthly wage, or by taking his property for free or
sentenced to three years in prison without pay.
Note.
In this article, the gross income is calculated as the amount of the average monthly wage, which exceeds the surface, in particular.
if it is a large-scale income, it is considered to be an amount of more than two hundred of the average monthly wage.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 241 False entrepreneurship

Fraudulent business, i.e., borrowing, tax evasion, gaining other property interests, or large amounts of money to citizens, organizations, or the state.
A business designed to cover up a prohibited business that does not intend to do business or does not intend to do banking
the establishment of an organization, for this,
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor, or imprisonment for up to one year.

Article 242 Legalization of illegally obtained funds and other property

(1) The existence of financially illicitly obtained funds or financial transactions with other property, or other transactions;
for the conduct of business, or other economic activities of the said funds, or property.
that money has been used, as well as for the purpose of legalizing their ownership, use and disposal.
the concealment, or concealment, of the illegal origin of the means, or the property, or the benefit of those acts, or any other
because of the benefits
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.
(2) Such actions shall be taken if:
a) again;
(b) by a group of pre-spoken persons or by an organized group;
c) by a civil servant or a person equated to him by the use of his official position;
in the amount from one hundred to two hundred of the average monthly wage without receiving or receiving property for free
is fined or sentenced to two to five years in prison without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) The acts referred to in the first and second paragraphs of this Article shall apply to the proceeds of crime and other property, or
if implemented on a large scale,
- is punishable by imprisonment for three to eight years for taking his property free of charge.
Note : Labor remuneration as a large amount of money and other property acquired in a criminal manner referred to in this Article
the value of the property, which exceeds the average monthly amount, is calculated.
(March 26, 2011, August 4, 2011, May 3, 2014 and June 3, 2017)
In the wording of the Laws - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2011, No. 1, Article 20, No. 3, Article 55, 2014, No. 2, 77Article; 2017, No. 2, Article 75).

In 243. Illegal borrowing

(1) A bank or other entity may be required by a private entrepreneur or the head of the organization to obtain a loan or to obtain preferential terms for borrowing.
credit to the creditor by providing a false information about the economic or financial condition of the private entrepreneur or organization
illegal acquisition, if those actions have caused significant damage to the lender,
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.
(2) Illegal receipt of state target debt, as well as the intended direction of the target debt of the state, which is legally obtained;
non-use, if those actions have caused significant damage to citizens, organizations or the state;
a fine of between one and two hundred percent of the average monthly wage or two to five years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 244 Immediate refusal to pay off a debt

Once the relevant court decision has entered into force, it is subject to a large number of decisions by the head of the organization, a private entrepreneur or a citizen.
for negligent refusal to pay off debts or to pay securities,
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor is punishable by imprisonment.
Note.
A large amount of credit is higher than the average monthly wage of a private entrepreneur or citizen.
debt of the organization, and the debt of the organization in the amount of more than two hundred of the average monthly salary
considered.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 26, 2010 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2010, No. 4, 72Article).

Article 245 Restricting monopolistic movements and competition

Establishment and maintenance of monopoly high or low prices, as well as market sharing, market access
language, or other language, aimed at restricting it, removing other subjects of economic activity from it, setting or maintaining single prices;
restriction of competition through agreed actions, if they:
a) repeated within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
b) by using violence or threatening to use force;
c) using the state of service;
(d) by a group of people in advance or by an organized group;
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or for a term of one to three years.
sentenced to imprisonment.
(In edition of the Laws of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and June 3, 2017 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2013, No. 4, Article 77; 2017, No. 2, Article 75).

1
Article
245 Managing the securities market

(1) The manipulation of the securities market, i.e. the demand and supply, the price of securities or the trade in them;
mass media of false or deceptive information that affects or may influence the amount, general
disseminated in any other way through the information and telecommunications system used, as well as equally valuable
transactions with securities at a price significantly different from the prices at trades held on the same day for securities
that such transactions have been concluded on behalf of or at the expense of the persons or their employees who have spoken to each other in advance.
provided that such actions are not based on greed or other personal interests to other participants in the securities market.
if done with harm,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
is punishable by employment in their work.
(2) They have done so if they:
a) again;
b) using the service status;
c) by a group of pre-existing people or an organized group;
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor, or imprisonment for up to three years without receiving or receiving property for free.
The Code was 1introduced in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2011, which should include 245 articles - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.
Information, 2011, No. 3, Article 55.

Article 246 To force a deal to be concluded or a refusal to conclude it

(1) Threatening to use, destroy or destroy the property of a stranger, as well as the victim or his or her loved ones;
Signs of intimidation, threatening to disseminate information that could seriously harm their rights and legitimate interests
in the absence of which, forcing the contract to be concluded or the refusal to conclude it,
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) The following actions have been taken:
a) again;
b) using violence;
c) by a group of pre-linguists or by an organized group;
fined between fifty and one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to five years
deprivation is punishable.

Article 247 Illegal use of a trademark

The trademark of another person, the service mark, the name of the firm, the registered name, the place of origin of the goods or the mark of the goods.
for misuse of the name of the place, if these acts have caused a great deal of damage,
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.

Article 248 Violation of the rules for the preparation and use of state determining marks

(1) Illegal preparation, sale or use of the constituent markings of the State, as well as greed or other personal
to manipulate it based on interests, in order to
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) Similar actions have been taken by a group of people on repeated or preliminary language or by an organized group.
if
shall be fined between forty and one hundred per cent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to five years.
deprivation is punishable.

Article 249 Apparently fake advertising

Advertising about goods, works or services, as well as their manufacturers (executors, sellers)
using explicitly misleading information based on their own interests, if this has caused significant harm,
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.

Article 250 Unauthorized access and disclosure of information constituting business or banking secrets

(1) Theft of documents, the purchase or purchase of gifts by persons who know a trade or banking secret or their loved ones, or
collecting information that constitutes a business or bank secret by intimidation, seizing the necessary information from the means of communication, including
as well as for the purpose of collecting or otherwise misappropriating information through other means, for this purpose,
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.
(2) Information that constitutes a business or banking secret is based on greed or other personal interests without the consent of their owners.
for unauthorized disclosure or exploitation and substantial damage,
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.

1
Article
250 Insider transactions in the securities market

(1) Conducting insider transactions in the securities market, i.e. using insider information without the issuer's consent
that transactions or transactions have been made with him, if those actions were committed out of greed or other personal gain,
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(2) They have done so if they:
(a) by a group of pre-existing linguists or an organized group;
(b) In connection with the receipt of a particularly large amount of income,
is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
Insider information is not publicly available, including for a period of time, as well as by an issuer or
information on securities issued is understood, if such information is available on the basis of employment status, employment obligations and related
the person who owns it in connection with its contracts is more likely to be compared to other participants in the securities market.
if it puts in the case.
The Code was 1introduced in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2011, which should include 250 articles - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.
Information, 2011, No. 3, Article 55.

Article 251 Corruption in the issuance (issuance) of securities

The inclusion of clearly incorrect information in the prospectus of securities issuance, as well as the apparent inaccuracy in its composition.
confirmation of the prospectus containing the information, or confirmation of the clearly incorrect results of the issuance, if those actions
if it has caused significant damage to the investor (investor),
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.

Article 252 Preparation or placement of counterfeit money or securities for sale

(1) For the purpose of sale, counterfeit banknotes, coins, government securities or
Other securities denominated in the national currency of Turkmenistan or in foreign currency or in foreign currency
who made or placed the securities in question,
Page 9

is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to ten years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) The following actions have been taken:
a) again;
b) in large quantities;
c) if done by an organized group,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
Counterfeit banknotes, coins, government securities referred to in this Article shall be denominated in the national currency of Turkmenistan.
made or placed in other securities, foreign currency, securities denominated in foreign currency
if the amount exceeds the average monthly wage, it is deemed to have been made on a large scale.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 253 Preparation of fake credit or settlement cards and other payment documents for the purpose of
or placement

(1) For the purpose of selling counterfeit credit or settlement cards and other payment documents that are not considered securities
to make or place,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(2) Similar actions have been taken by a group of people on repeated or preliminary language or by an organized group.
if
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of four to seven years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 254 Smuggling

(1) Goods or other items for which the special rules for crossing the customs border of Turkmenistan are established,
the transfer of goods in large quantities, the goods and objects specified in the third part of this Article, excluding the customs clearance of goods
unauthorized or unauthorized concealment from the control, or fraudulently misrepresenting the customs or equivalence of documents or means
smuggling through the use of or without declaring goods or in connection with their incorrect declaration,
in the amount from twenty-five to fifty percent of the average monthly wage without taking or receiving property for free
is fined or taken for free for up to two years without taking or receiving his property free of charge or without taking his property for free or
sentenced to three years in prison without pay.
(2) When the action provided for in the first part of this article is carried out in the following cases:
a) again;
(b) by a group of pre-spoken persons or by an organized group;
c) by an official using his official position or released from customs control;
g) by means of violence against the person exercising customs control;
from seventy-five to one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly wage without taking or receiving property for free;
shall be liable to a fine of three years or imprisonment for a term of three years or five years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) Drugs or psychotropic substances and their precursors, narcotics or
tools used in the preparation of psychotropic substances, powerful agents, poisons, poisons, radioactive or explosive substances, weapons,
explosive devices, firearms or ammunition, nuclear, chemical, biological and weapons of mass destruction, other types and
Transit through the customs border of Turkmenistan, special rules for the use of weapons of mass destruction
large amounts of materials and equipment, including tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other psychoactive substances
strategically important raw materials, in which special rules for the amount of medicines, the special rules for crossing the customs border of Turkmenistan
transfer of goods, cultural values, if the action is carried out without the permission of the customs control or in secret from it, or
either by fraudulently using documents or means of customs clearance or without declaring the goods or
if they are carried out in connection with an incorrect declaration,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(4) When the action provided for in paragraph three of this Article is committed in the following cases:
a) again;
(b) by a group of pre-spoken persons or by an organized group;
c) by an official who has exercised his official position or by a person released from customs control;
(d) if the person exercising customs control was subjected to violence;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
1. The actions provided for in the first part of this Article, if the value of the goods transferred across the border are the average monthly wage.
if it exceeds fifty of the amount, it is considered to have been carried out on a large scale.
2. List of medicines containing tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other psychoactive substances and large
the amount is established by the regulatory legal acts of Turkmenistan.
(November 9, 2013, March 1, 2014, June 3, 2017, and March 9, 2018
in the edition of the Laws of Turkmenistan of June - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, Article 77; No. 2014,
No. 1, Article 44; 2017, No. 3, Article 106; 2018, No. 2, Article 35).

Article 255 Illegal circulation of precious metals, natural gems or various stones

(1) Precious metals, natural gemstones or various types in violation of the rules established by the laws of Turkmenistan;
for the conclusion of foreign-related transactions, as well as for their illicit transport or for any form, shipment
(excluding jewelery and household goods and parts of such products),
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.
(2) The following actions have been taken:
a) again;
b) in large quantities;
c) by a group of pre-linguists or by an organized group;
from seventy-five to one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly wage without taking or receiving property for free;
shall be fined in the amount of two years or five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
If the value of illicitly circulated precious metals, natural gems, or various gems is an average of wages.
if it exceeds the amount of the salary, the actions provided for in this article shall be deemed to have been carried out on a large scale.

Article 256 Violation of the rules for the supply of precious metals and precious stones to the state

Precious metals extracted and mined from underground mines, as well as minerals and
when a large-scale refusal to hand over precious stones to the state is made, in order to do so,
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to one year.
Note.
If the value of the items not transferred to the State referred to in this Article exceeds fifty percent of the average monthly wage,
then the rules for the delivery of precious metals and precious stones to the state are considered to have been severely violated.

Article 257 Illegal actions when sunk

(1) Property or property liabilities, information on property, its amount, location of property or property;
other information about the transfer of property to another, whether the property is transferred to another ownership or not
concealment of confidentiality, as well as concealment of accounting and other accounting documents indicating economic activity, no
fraud, if these actions are committed by the head or owner of the organization - the debtor, or by a private entrepreneur
if it suffers a great deal of damage in the event of a sinking or foreseeing that it will sink,
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) whether the debtor - the organization, the head or the owner or the private entrepreneur is in fact insufficient (insolvent);
Although some of the creditors are aware of the fact that they have illegally satisfied the claims of the property to the detriment of other creditors, thereby
Similarly, although the creditor is aware of the benefits to other creditors to the detriment of the insolvent debtor, the creditor is
if it accepts satisfaction, if those actions have caused significant damage,
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 258 Intentional drowning

By the head or owner of a commercial organization, as well as by a private entrepreneur for his own personal benefit or otherwise.
deliberate bankruptcy for the benefit of the people, i.e., the deliberate creation of insolvency or
enhancement, such as extensive damage or other serious consequences,
fined from fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly wage or sentenced to up to two years in prison
is punished for doing.

Article 259 False immersion

Fraudulent bankruptcy, i.e., by the head or owner of a commercial organization, as well as by a private entrepreneur, to creditors.
so as to delay the payment of the payment to be made, or to break it down into installments, or to repay it, or to reduce the amount of its debts;
as well as the fact that he had made a false declaration that he had gone bankrupt in order to mislead the creditors in order not to pay his debts, so great
because of the amount of damage,
is paid a fine of up to fifty percent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.

Article 260 Non-refund of foreign currency funds

Foreigners subject to compulsory importation at the expense of the authorized bank of Turkmenistan in accordance with the laws of Turkmenistan
non-repatriation of large sums of money in foreign currency by the head of the organization,
is fined between one and two hundred percent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
is punishable by employment in their work.
Note.
If the amount of funds in foreign currency not returned from abroad is equal to the amount of remuneration, the average monthly amount
if more than three thousand, then the actions provided for in this article are considered to have been carried out on a large scale.

Article 261 Refusal to pay customs duties

Because of his refusal to pay large-scale customs duties,
is paid a fine of between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage, or a fine of up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.
Note.
If the value of unpaid customs payments exceeds fifty percent of the average monthly wage, it is a large amount of customs duties.
is considered a refusal to pay their dues.

Article 262 Individual's refusal to pay taxes

(1) From the payment of taxes by the intentional concealment or reduction of the income or other taxable items of the natural person;
refusal, as well as the inclusion of visually misleading information in the tax returns and accounting documents.
led to a refusal to pay taxes,
shall be fined between thirty and one hundred of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
operating penalty is given.
(2) He did so if:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) if made in a particularly large amount,
is fined between fifty and one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
Note:
1. If the calculated amount of unpaid tax per year exceeds two hundred and fifty of the average monthly wage,
is considered an individual's refusal to pay a large amount of tax.
2. If the amount of unpaid tax accrued in a year exceeds five percent of the average monthly wage,
is considered to be an individual's refusal to pay a particularly large amount of tax.
3. If the person who has committed the offense for the first time provided for in this article has assisted in the discovery of the offense and the damage caused
if fully compensated, he or she shall be released from imprisonment in the form of imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 263 Refusal to pay taxes from organizations

(1) By entering visually misleading information about income or expenditure into financial documents or through financial
through the destruction of documents and the concealment of other taxable items or other means of taxation from organizations in large quantities.
led to a refusal to pay,
deprivation of the right to work in a particular position for a period of up to three years or to be paid for a certain job;
fined between fifty and two hundred of the average monthly salary, or a fine of up to two years in correctional labor;
is given.
(2) He did so if:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) if made in a particularly large amount,
to work for a period of up to three years without depriving or depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is fined between one hundred and two hundred of the average monthly wage, or for a term of up to three years.
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year by deprivation of the right to work or employment.
Note:
1. If the calculated amount of unpaid tax per year exceeds one thousand of the average monthly amount of wages, it
is considered to be a refusal to pay a large amount of tax from organizations.
2. If the calculated amount of unpaid tax per year exceeds two thousand five hundred of the average monthly salary.
however, it is deemed to be a refusal to pay a particularly large tax from those organizations.
3. If, for the first time, an official who commits an offense under this Article shall assist in the detection of the offense and the damage caused,
if fully compensated, he or she shall be released from imprisonment in the form of imprisonment.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 264 Consumer cheating

Inadequate measurement by individuals who perform the sale of goods, performance of works and rendering of services, less
attraction, over-calculation, misrepresentation of consumer (work, service) characteristics, quality, or other consumers
to be deceived in the way, if they:
a) repeated within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) if done in large quantities,
for up to three years without depriving or depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
is levied in the amount of twenty to seventy per cent of the average monthly wage without receiving or receiving free wages.
or deprived or deprived of the right to hold or hold a particular position for a period of up to three years,
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years without the receipt of property or free of charge.
Note.
Large-scale fraudulent damage to consumers in the amount exceeding twelve of the average monthly wage.
considered.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 265 Violation of trade rules

(1) From the warehouses, bases, enterprises (organizations) of state trade (public catering) in violation of the established rules,
the sale of goods from their stores and ancillary premises, as well as the concealment of goods from consumers, if they:
a) repeated within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty for these offenses;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) if done in large quantities,
for a period of up to three years, depriving him of the right to work in a particular position or to engage in a particular activity;
shall be fined in the amount of twenty to forty per cent of the average salary, or without taking or receiving his property free of charge, for a period of two years;
sentenced to imprisonment for up to five years.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they:
a) by an organized group;
b) if made in a particularly large amount,
a fine in the amount of fifty to one hundred and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage, without taking or receiving the property free of charge;
is sentenced to imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
1. The average monthly wage of food products is not less than twenty, the wages of other goods
the amount of the average monthly payment of not less than fifty is considered to be the sale or concealment of the goods in large quantities;
is done.
2. The average monthly wage of foodstuffs shall not be less than fifty, and the wage of other goods shall not exceed that of wages.
the amount of the average monthly amount not less than the surface is considered to be the sale or concealment of the goods in a particularly large amount
is done.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 266 Fake postage stamps and travel documents

Explicit counterfeit postage stamps, international refund coupons, printing or stamping of stamp machines, as well as
tickets for passenger or freight transportation by rail, water, air or road transport, etc.
to make or sell documents for sale,
is fined between ten and thirty of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.

CHAPTER 28. CRIMES AGAINST SERVICE IN THE COMMERCIAL AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

Article 267 Abuse of powers

(1) A person who abuses his or her authority, that is, performs managerial duties in a commercial or other organization;
abuse of power by, or for the benefit of, or for the benefit of, other than the legitimate interests of this organization;
if it is done for the purpose of profit and gain or harm to other persons, if this is the case with the citizens,
if it has seriously damaged the rights and legitimate interests of organizations or the state,
is fined between twenty and forty of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) Whoever acts in such a way that has serious consequences,
shall be fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to four years.
deprivation is punishable.
Notes.
1. The persons referred to in this Article shall not be deemed to be a person acting as a businessman or manager in another organization.
in a non-profit organization, as well as in a non-profit organization that does not have a government agency, a local government agency, a government agency
performing organizational, managerial or administrative responsibilities under permanent, temporary or special powers
considered human.
2. If the acts provided for in this article or other articles of this chapter are the sole responsibility of a non-state-owned business organization.
if it harms their interests, criminal prosecution shall be carried out at the request of this organization or with its written consent.
3. If the acts provided for in this Article or in any other article of this Chapter are committed by citizens, other organizations or
if it violates the rights and legitimate interests of the state, criminal prosecution is carried out on a general basis.

Article 268 Bermit

(1) Issuance of a grant, i.e., a gift to a person performing a managerial function in a commercial organization or other organization,
illegal transfer of money, securities, other property, as well as the completion of an official's business for the benefit of the giver;
non-completion, i.e., the property is illegally owned by the official for the purpose of which he or she may or may have to take advantage of his or her official position.
because of the service
fined from twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage or up to two years
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to one year.
(2) The following action shall be taken:
a) again;
b) if it was committed by a group of people in advance;
fined from fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly wage or sentenced to up to three years in prison
is punished for doing.
Note.
A person guilty of committing a crime under this article if he or she claims that a threatening measure has been taken against him or her or
is released from criminal liability if he or she voluntarily notifies the issuer that he or she has been given a license to initiate a criminal case.

Article 269 Illegal rewarding

(1) The money, securities, other property of a person acting as a manager in a business organization or other organization.
whether or not the official, in the interests of the giver, to complete or not to do a thing, i.e., the official's own
the provision of illicit property of that nature to him for the purpose of which he may or may have taken advantage of the state of service, in order to do so,
remuneration for a term of up to three years or deprivation of the right to hold a particular position;
is fined between one hundred and two hundred of the average monthly amount of payment, or is employed for correctional work up to two years
or is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) Such acts are subject to or in connection with intimidation by a group of persons for repeated or preliminary speaking.
if done
is punishable by imprisonment for up to five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 270 Abuse of the full authority of an auditor, a neutral judge or a lawyer

In order to benefit the full powers of the auditor, the neutral judge or the lawyer, and for themselves or other
misuse of the functions of his business in order to gain advantages for people or harm others;
if the action has seriously damaged the rights or legitimate interests of citizens, organizations or the state,
remuneration for a term of up to three years or deprivation of the right to hold a particular position;
is fined between fifty and one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly payment, or may be employed in correctional labor for up to two years;
or is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

SECTION XII. PUBLIC SECURITY AND
CRIMES AGAINST THE HEALTH OF THE POPULATION

CHAPTER 29. CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC SECURITY AND PUBLIC ORDER

Article 271 Terrorism

(1) Terrorism, that is, the commission of an explosion, arson, or other act that may endanger the lives of persons,
the occurrence of events that could cause serious damage to property or other socially dangerous events, if these actions are detrimental to public safety;
influence, intimidation of the population or the impact of decision-making by government agencies, foreign states or international organizations
if it was done for the purpose of inciting, inciting war or complicating international relations, as well as achieving those goals.
if a threat has been made with the actions specified for it, for this purpose,

imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge;
deprivation is punishable.
(2) He did:
a) again;

(b) As a weapon or weapon that could pose a real threat to a person’s life or health;
if used with explosives or explosive devices,
imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they:
(a) Danger of the use or use of weapons of mass destruction, radioactive substances;
shooting and mass poisoning, the spread of an epidemic or epizootic, or
to threaten to spread, as well as to lead to mass killings of people
if combined with the ability to perform other appropriate actions,
b) if it has resulted in the death of a person or other serious consequences,

c) a group of pre-spoken people, an organized group or a criminal
if done by the union,
for a period of ten to twenty-five years without taking or receiving the property free of charge;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(4) Violation of public security, intimidation of the population or the state of Turkmenistan
decision-making by agencies, a foreign state, or an international organization
the fact that a person was killed for the purpose of influencing, as well as for those purposes, is the same
either the cessation of state or other political activity of a public and public official, or so
that he had committed suicide in retaliation for his work, or that he was under international protection
attacking people, organizations, buildings or structures, people, buildings,
facilities, media and communications for rent, smuggling, as well as
by capturing an aircraft or a watercraft or a moving train
because he was co-ordinated and committed suicide,
for fifteen to twenty-five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge;
sentenced to imprisonment.
Note.
If a person involved in the preparation of a terrorist incident is notified in a timely manner to the authorities or by other means
if it has helped to prevent terrorism, and if there is no indication of another crime in that person’s actions, it is a crime
exempt from liability.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

1
Article
271 Funding for Terrorism

(1) Understand that the financing of terrorism, i.e. the financing of the organization or carrying out of terrorism
with the collection or transfer of money, material and other resources or the provision of financial and other services, as well as
of a terrorist, a terrorist group, a terrorist organization, or the same without or without involvement in a terrorist act;
to provide for the work of an organized group, an illegal armed group, or a criminal organization to achieve its goals;
for actions (inaction) on
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of four to ten years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) They have done so if they:
a) recycled or in large quantities;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) a person performing administrative functions in a commercial or other organization, using a position of service, or
if made by the head of a public association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without parole.
Note
A person who commits the offense provided for in this article as a result of the use of violence or the threat of use, if he or she
voluntarily reported to the authorities, assisted in the prevention and detection of the crime, if in his actions
is exempt from criminal liability if he or she is not a member of another offense.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2011 and November 21, 2015 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2011, No. 3, Article 55; 2015, No. 4, Article 144).

2
Article
271 Calls for openness to terrorism or acts of terrorism

(1) The propaganda of terrorism and the open call for acts of terrorism,
as well as the fact that such content was prepared for distribution,
for retention or dissemination,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years for taking his property free of charge.
(2) Such acts are punishable by imprisonment if they do not provide access to the media, electronic or information and telecommunications systems, including
Administrative functions in commercial or other organizations using the Internet or using the service state
executor, head of a public association, a group of pre-linguists or an organized group
if done by
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years for taking his property free of charge.

3
Article
271 Establishing, leading and participating in terrorist groups and terrorist organizations

(1) The establishment of a terrorist group and a terrorist organization, as well as to them
for being guided,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without parole.

(2) The activities of the terrorist group and the terrorist organization, as well as the activities carried out by them;
for his involvement in terrorist activities,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to twelve years for taking his property for free.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they are in a commercial or
if it has been done by a person acting as a manager in other organizations or by the head of a public association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years for taking his property free of charge.

4
Article
271 Involvement, preparation or arming of terrorist and extremist activities

(1) To co-operate or otherwise to commit acts of terrorism and extremism
for being drawn, trained, or armed,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to twelve years for taking his property for free.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they are committed in respect of a minor or in a state of service;
of a person or public association performing administrative functions in a commercial or other organization using
if done by the manager,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without parole.

5
Article
271 Preparation for terrorist or extremist activities

Abilities and skills to commit acts of terrorism or acts of extremism
training, including outside Turkmenistan
due to
sentenced to three to seven years in prison.
Note
The person who has committed the offense provided for in this article shall notify the public authorities of his or her prior preparation in a timely manner.
if so, as well as to those who have undergone such training, who are implementing it, who are organizing it and who are funding it.
if he has assisted, he shall be exempt from criminal liability if his actions do not constitute another offense.
2
3
4
The Code should
include
Articles
271,5 271, 271, 271 in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 -

Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 272 A clear lie about the terrorist incident

Prepared explosives, fires or other actions that could endanger human life,
spreading false information about the occurrence of events that could cause serious damage to property or other socially dangerous events,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

Article 273 Creating or participating in illegal armed or militarized structures

(1) the creation of armed or militarized structures not provided for by the legislation of Turkmenistan, as well as
because the structures are managed,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(2) for participating in the activities of illegal armed or militarized units;
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to five years.
Note.
A person who voluntarily refuses to participate in the activities of illegally armed or militarized units and surrenders his or her weapons and military equipment,
he is exempt from criminal liability if his actions do not constitute another offense.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

Article 274 Banditry

(1) The establishment of a well-organized armed group (gang) for the purpose of aggression is to lead such a group (s),
as well as involvement in gang-related attacks,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to twenty-five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) for their participation in the group (s) referred to in the first part of this article or in the offenses committed by it,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years for taking his property free of charge.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they have been committed using the state of service,

deprivation of liberty and imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty-five years;
is punished.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

1
Article
274 Occupation of buildings, facilities, media and communications

(1) Occupancy or condition of occupation of buildings, facilities, media and communications, other communications
forcing the state, organizations or citizens to take any action or refrain from taking any action
for the purpose of combining and retaining them for the purpose of destruction or injury,
sentenced to three to seven years in prison.
(2) They have done so if they:

a) in wartime;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;

c) again;

Page 10

(d) with the use of violence endangered by human life and health;
e) using a weapon or other weapon used as a weapon;

e) with greedy tendencies or on hire;
f) in the case of government agencies or enterprises;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they are recklessly causing the death or other serious injury of a person;
resulted in or made by an organized group,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

2 274 When weapons of mass destruction, other weapons and military equipment are created
Article

illegal export of used technologies, scientific and technical information and services
to do

Weapons of mass destruction, means of transport, other weapons and military equipment may be used and
for the illegal export of technologies, scientific and technical information and services to which a special export migration has been established,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
1 of the
2 Code should be added in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of Turkmenistan
Articles 274, 274

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 275 Establishment or operation of an organized group, criminal association and other criminal entities
participation

(1) The commission of an organized crime, a criminal association or other criminal organization, including their transnational
the creation of structures or open calls for their creation, as well as to them or their subdivisions.
for being guided,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to fifteen years without parole.
(2) For their involvement in the activities of the criminal entities referred to in the first paragraph of this Article,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years without parole.
(3) The acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they are committed by a juvenile or
a person or a public person who performs managerial functions in a commercial or other organization using a service position;
if made by the head of the association,
is punished by imprisonment for a term of ten to twenty-five years for taking his property free of charge.
(4) The establishment of the heads of the criminal structures or associations of their participants referred to in the first part of this Article,
as well as for the coordination of their actions,
is punished by imprisonment for a term of twelve to fifteen years for taking his property free of charge.
(5) For the management or active participation in the association referred to in paragraph four of this Article,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty-five years for taking his property free of charge.
Note
The person who committed the offense provided for in this Article shall be deemed to have committed, committed, committed or committed a felony.
if he has helped to prevent or uncover a crime, if his actions do not constitute another crime, the crime
is exempt from liability. ”
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

1
Article
275 Financing of criminal structures

(1) Illegal armed and militarized structures provided for in Articles 273, 274 and 275 of this Code, stable
organized armed group, organized group, criminal union and other criminal structures, as well as
money, material and technical means that are clearly intended to finance the organization or commission of the crimes committed by them;
for the collection or transfer of other funds, as well as for the provision of financial and other services,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years for taking his property free of charge.
(2) The confiscation of their property by the parties to the criminal offenses provided for in the first part of this Article;
due to the distribution, as well as the development of areas for their financing,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years for taking his property free of charge.
(3) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they are used in a business or other position,
if done by a person acting as an executive in the organization or by the head of a public association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years without parole.
Note
A person who commits the offense provided for in this article as a result of the use of violence or the threat of use, if he or she
voluntarily reported to the authorities, assisted in the prevention and detection of the crime, if in his actions
is exempt from criminal liability if he or she is not a member of another offense. ”
1 include 275 articles in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.
The Code should

Information, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 276 Mass disturbances

(1) Use of force, robbery, arson, destruction of property, use of firearms, use of explosives or explosives
the organization of mass riots in connection with, as well as the armed resistance to the representative of the authorities,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.
(2) Participation in the mass disturbances provided for in the first part of this article;
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 277 The smuggling or unauthorized transport of an aircraft, a watercraft or a railway carriage
possession

(1) The smuggling of an air or watercraft or the composition of a freight train, as well as such a vessel or wagon;
unauthorized possession for the purpose of smuggling,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(2) The following action shall be taken:
a) was committed by a group of people on preliminary language communication;
b) again;
c) by using violence that is dangerous to the life or health of the person or by threatening to use such violence;
d) if it is made using a firearm,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(3) The actions provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they have been committed by an organized group, or
if it has resulted in the death of a person due to negligence or has led to other serious consequences,
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.

1
Article
277 Illegal possession of the platform

(1) That the floating or inactive platform is illegally occupied for the purpose of controlling it, as well as on the platform
explosives or other means that endanger its safe floating, causing the platform to break or disintegrate;
because it has been installed or deployed, and that actions have been taken (inaction) to achieve those goals,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) They have done so if they:
a) by a group of pre-speech people;
b) again;
(c) the use of violence endangering the life or health of a person, or the threat of the use of such violence;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) The acts referred to in the first and second paragraphs of this Article shall be deemed to have been committed by an organized group or due to negligence.
if it has resulted in the death of another person or other serious consequences,
is sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison for taking his property free of charge.
1
The Code was introduced
in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2011, which should include 277 articles - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.

Information, 2011, No. 3, Article 55.

Article 278 Traffic congestion

(1) Rail, water, air or road transport, as well as main pipeline transport, by the construction of obstacles or other means;
if the deliberate blockage of the conductors, which has resulted in traffic interruptions or other disruptions to the operation of the vehicle,
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.
(2) Such acts shall be deemed to have taken place at the expense of the life or health of the persons, or at the time of the preliminary interrogation.
if done by a group of people,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.
(3) The actions provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they are involved in an accident or other serious injury to a person;
if led to circumstances,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

Article 279 Disruption

(1) For the purpose of violence, i.e., to intimidate or threaten the use of force against citizens who are disregarded by society;
rude public order related to, as well as related to the destruction or destruction of a stranger's property
to break,
is fined between ten and thirty of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor up to one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(2) Such action, if:
(a) by two or more persons without preliminary communication, or by a group of persons in advance;
(b) to a representative of the government or to the public, who is acting as a public defender or who prevents public order violations;
related to resisting another person;
c) if recycled,
is fined between twenty and fifty percent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
are punishable by imprisonment for up to five years or imprisonment for up to five years.
(3) For an offense committed with the use of a weapon or with the use of objects as a weapon,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 and May 3, 2014 - the Mejlis of Turkmenistan
Information, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 2, Article 77).

Article 280 Violation of safety regulations during mining, construction or other work

(1) Safety regulations are violated during mining, construction or other activities, if they are caused by carelessness.
if it has caused serious damage to health,
is fined between ten and twenty times the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
by depriving them of the right to work in their jobs or to hold a particular position for a period of up to three years or to engage in a particular activity
or sentenced to imprisonment for up to one year without imprisonment.

(2) Such action, if it has resulted in the death or other serious consequences of negligence,
for up to three years with or without the deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position;
sentenced to seven years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

1
Article
280 Poor quality construction

(1) by the heads of construction organizations, contractors and officials responsible for the quality of construction
poorly constructed, unfinished or non-compliant buildings and structures, which do not comply with the terms of the contract and project documents,
for the use of highways, underground passages, power plants, dwellings or other construction sites
because they have been handed over or accepted, as well as because they have undergone low-quality treatment, if they are careless.
if it has caused serious or moderate injury to health,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
to impose a fine of between one and two hundred of the average monthly amount of payment or to work in correctional labor for a period of up to two years
or up to two years in prison.
(2) Such acts, if they have resulted in the death or other grave consequences of negligence,
up to six years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to life imprisonment.
(3) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they have resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
eight to three years without being deprived or deprived of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to up to one year in prison.

2
Article
280 Violations of rules and regulations in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction

(1) Violation of rules and regulations in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction, if this negligence results in the death of a person or
if it has led to other serious consequences,
up to six years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to life imprisonment.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this Article, if they have resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
eight to three years without being deprived or deprived of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to up to one year in prison.

3
Article
280 Inadequate performance of expert work or engineering services

(1) Due to improper performance of expert work or engineering services, if this negligence results in the death of a person or
if it has led to other serious consequences,
up to six years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to life imprisonment.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this Article, if they have resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
eight to three years without being deprived or deprived of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to up to one year in prison.

4
Article
280 Violation of security regulations during space operations

(1) Violation of safety regulations during space operations, if this negligence results in serious injury to human health.
if brought
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
to impose a fine of between one and two hundred of the average monthly amount of payment or to work in correctional labor for a period of up to two years
or up to two years in prison.
(2) Such acts, if they have resulted in the death or other grave consequences of negligence,
up to six years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to life imprisonment.
(3) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they have resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
eight to three years without being deprived or deprived of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to up to one year in prison.
1 include
2 Articles
3
The Code should
280,4 280, 280, 280 in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 -

Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 281 Violation of safety regulations at explosive facilities

(1) For violations of safety regulations in explosion-proof facilities or explosion-proof workshops, if this is not the case
if it can cause death or other serious consequences,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to thirty salaries or a fine of up to two years.
(2) If such action has resulted in the death or other serious consequences of negligence,
seven or two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold a particular position for three years or to engage in a particular occupation;
sentenced to up to one year in prison.

Article 282 Violation of fire safety regulations

(1) A person charged with the duty of complying with fire safety regulations shall be liable for a breach of his duty if he
if it has caused serious or moderate harm to a person's health due to negligence;
deprived of the right to work for up to two years in correctional work or to hold a particular position or to engage in a particular job
is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years without imprisonment or imprisonment.
(2) If such action has resulted in the death or other serious consequences of negligence,
deprivation or deprivation of the right to work in a particular position for up to three years or up to five years without deprivation
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 283 Illegal use of radioactive or nuclear materials

(1) whether radioactive or nuclear materials have been illegally acquired, stored, used, delivered, damaged, or industrially
because it has been enriched, altered, destroyed, or contaminated,
sentenced to up to two years in prison.
2) Such acts, if they have resulted in the death or other serious consequences of negligence,
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years without the receipt of property or free of charge.
(2011)

In the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2013 - the Mejlis of Turkmenistan

Information, 2011, No. 3, Article 55).

Article 284 Violation of the rules for the use of radioactive or nuclear materials

Rules for the storage, delivery, use, registration, transportation and use of radioactive or nuclear materials
in violation of other provisions, if these actions result in a violation of the physical protection of radioactive or nuclear materials or other
if it has serious consequences,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of two to seven years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2011)

In the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2013 - the Mejlis of Turkmenistan

Information, 2011, No. 3.55).

Article 285 Theft or intimidation of radioactive or nuclear materials

(1) For theft or intimidation of radioactive or nuclear materials,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of two to seven years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) They have done so if they:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) using the state of service;
(d) The use of non-life-threatening violence or the threat of the use of such violence;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to ten years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(3) The use of radioactive or nuclear materials that are dangerous to human life or health, or the use of such violence;
at the risk of being abducted or intimidated by either an organized group, or a criminal association,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to fifteen years.
Note.
This Article, as well as Articles 291 and 294 of this Code, shall be deemed to be a repeat offense and shall be deemed to have been committed under these Articles, as well as in accordance with this Code.
A crime committed by a person who has committed one or more of the offenses provided for in Articles 227-233 and 271-274
considered.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of August 4, 2011 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2011, No. 3, 55Article).

Article 286 Violation of the rules for the use of explosives, flammable substances or pyrotechnic products

Rules for the storage, registration, use and transportation of explosives, flammable substances or pyrotechnic products
violations, as well as the fact that these substances or products were illegally shipped by mail or luggage, if these actions are serious due to negligence
if results
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.

Article 287 Illegal purchase, sale, storage of firearms, ammunition, explosives or explosive devices,
to be transported, shipped or transported

(1) that firearms, ammunition, explosives or explosive devices have been illegally acquired, sold, stored,
because it was carried, sent, or carried with it (excluding the sniper rifle and its ammunition, which are smooth inside the nile),
sentenced to five years in prison.
(2) Because such acts have been committed or re-committed by a group of persons in advance of the language,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(3) The actions provided for in the first or second part of this Article shall be carried out by an organized group or a criminal association.
because it was done,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(4) that the guns, Finnish knives, or other cold weapons, including those thrown at them, were illegally sold or carried with them;
as well as for the illegal sale of gas pistols, cylinders or other gas weapons,
is fined between twenty-five and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years;
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
Note.
A person who voluntarily surrenders the provisions of this article shall be subject to criminal liability if his or her actions have no other indication of a crime.
is released.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 26, 2010 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2010, No. 4,72Article).

In 288. Illegal manufacture of weapons

(1) Illegal manufacture or repair of firearms, accessories, as well as ammunition, explosives;
or for improperly fabricating explosive devices,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(2) Because such acts have been committed or re-committed by a person in the language of preliminary language,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.
(3) For the illegal manufacture of gas guns, ammunition, Finnish knives or other cold weapons, including missiles,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.
Note.
A person who voluntarily surrenders the provisions of this article shall be subject to criminal liability if his or her actions have no other indication of a crime.
is released.

Article 289 Harsh storage of firearms

The fact that the firearm was kept in good condition and that it was possible for someone else to use it, if the situation had serious consequences,
up to one year in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to one year.

Article 290 Obligations to protect weapons, ammunition, explosives and explosives
non-compliance

A person entrusted with the protection of firearms, ammunition, explosives, or explosive devices shall be entitled to his or her responsibilities.
for non-compliance, if this situation led to their theft or destruction or other serious consequences,
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.

Article 291 Theft or intimidation of weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosive devices

(1) The firearm, the details of its supply, ammunition, explosives or explosive devices have been stolen or
because of the threat
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(2) Such actions, if:
(a) A person in possession of a weapon, ammunition, explosive device or explosive device in connection with or in connection with the condition of his or her service;
by;
b) again;
c) by a group of pre-speech people;
(d) Exploitation of non-life-threatening violence;
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(3) For acts provided for in the first or second part of this article, if they are the use of a life-threatening violence.
if carried out by an organized group or a criminal association,
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.

CHAPTER 30. AGAINST THE HEALTH OF THE POPULATION
CRIMES DONE

Article 292 Illegal drug trafficking or psychotropic drug trafficking,
processing, acquisition, storage, transportation, shipping

(1) that it has been illegally manufactured, processed, acquired for the purpose of selling drugs or psychotropic substances,
because it has been detained, transported or shipped, as well as illegally sold,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to five to twelve years in prison without charge.
(2) Because such acts have been committed by a group of persons for the purpose of repeated or preliminary communication, or if the same
if the purpose of the action is a large amount of drugs or psychotropic substances,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to twenty years without charge.
(3) A person or organization whose drug or psychotropic substances have been entrusted to or protected by their service status;
that the acts provided for in the first or second part of this article have been committed by the group or the criminal association;
for, in the same way, if the purpose of those actions is to have a particularly large amount of drugs or psychotropic substances,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding fifteen to twenty-five years.
Notes.
1. A person who voluntarily surrenders to drugs or psychotropic substances and is illegally addicted to drugs or psychotropic substances.
to uncover or prevent crimes related to trafficking, to expose the perpetrators,
the person who actively assisted in the seizure of the proceeds of crime is provided for in the first or second part of this article;
is exempted from criminal liability for his actions.
2. A person who has previously committed any of the offenses provided for in Articles 292, 294, 295, 296, 297 of this Code.
is recognized as having done so.
3 When drugs and psychotropic substances are trafficked illegally, their large and particularly large quantities
is determined by the output.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 293 Illegal drug trafficking or psychotropic drug trafficking
processing, acquisition, storage, transportation, shipment

(1) that it has been illegally manufactured, processed for the purpose of not selling drugs or psychotropic substances,
acquired, stored, transported, or shipped,
shall be fined between forty and one hundred per cent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to five years.
deprivation is punishable.
2) Because such acts have been committed by a group of persons for the purpose of repeated or preliminary language,
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.
Notes.
1. A person who voluntarily surrenders to drugs or psychotropic substances and is illegally addicted to drugs or psychotropic substances.
to uncover or prevent crimes related to trafficking, to expose the perpetrators,
a person who actively assists in the seizure of property acquired through a criminal offense shall be exempt from criminal liability for that offense.
2. A person who commits an offense under this Article shall be liable for any of the offenses provided for in Articles 292, 293, 294, 295, 296, 297 of this Code.
if he has committed one before, he is recognized as a repeat offender.

Article 294 Theft or intimidation of narcotics or psychotropic substances

(1) for the theft or intimidation of drugs or psychotropic substances;
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to six to twelve years in prison without charge.
(2) Such actions, if:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) by a person who has been entrusted with or is entrusted with the maintenance of drugs or psychotropic substances in connection with his or her service status;
(d) for the use of non-life-threatening violence;
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to fifteen years without charge.
(3) The actions provided for in the first or second paragraph of this Article shall be carried out by an organized group, as well as for life or health.
because of the use of dangerous violence, or if the purpose of those acts is to carry large quantities of drugs or
and psychotropic substances,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to imprisonment from ten to twenty years without charge.
(4) The acts provided for in the first, second or third paragraph of this article are committed by the criminal association or if that
if the purpose of the actions is to obtain a particularly large amount of drugs or psychotropic substances,
without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for a term not exceeding fifteen to twenty-five years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 295 Illegal cultivation of narcotics-prohibited plants

(1) That the poppy, cannabis or other plants are planted or cultivated with other drugs prohibited from cultivation;
or because it has spread the variety of those plants,
to work in a correctional facility for up to two years with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to two to five years in prison with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
is punished for doing.
(2) Such actions, if:
a) again;
(b) by a group of persons in advance;
c) for large-scale implementation,
imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
deprivation is punishable.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 3, 2017 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2017, No. 2, 75Article).

Article 296 Encouraging the use of drugs or psychotropic substances

(1) For inciting the use of drugs or psychotropic substances,
the penalty of imprisonment for a term of two to five years with or without the obligation to live in a particular place for a term of five years
is given.
(2) Such actions, if:
a) again;
(b) in the case of a minor or two or more persons;
c) because of the use of physical violence or the threat of its use,
imprisonment for a term of two to five years with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of three to ten years;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) The actions provided for in the first or second paragraph of this Article, if they have resulted in the death of the victim due to negligence.
or if it has severely damaged his or her health,
for a period of six to twelve years, with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 297 Arrangement or storage of narcotics or psychotropic substances

(1) for establishing or retaining residency for the purpose of withdrawing narcotics or psychotropic substances;
imprisonment for a term of two to five years with or without the obligation to live in a particular place for a term of three to eight years
is punished for doing.
(2) Since such acts have been committed,

without taking or receiving property for free and with the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years, or
sentenced to five to ten years in prison without charge.
(3) For the provision of premises for the use of drugs or psychotropic substances,
imprisonment for a term of two to five years with or without the burden of living in a particular place for a period of three years
Page 11

is given.

Article 298 is repealed.

Article 299 Drugs or psychotropic substances and their precursors, narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances
manufacturing, acquiring, storing, registering, releasing, transporting or shipping the tools used in the preparation,
violation of the rules

Used in the preparation of narcotics or psychotropic substances and their precursors, narcotics or psychotropic substances
for violations of the rules for the manufacture, acquisition, storage, registration, release, transportation or delivery of tools, if
if the act is carried out by a person who is under his or her obligation to comply with the specified rules,
for up to three years with or without the deprivation of the right to work or occupy a particular position for up to two years;
up to three years in prison or up to three years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 300 Recipes or other entitlements to the use of drugs or psychotropic substances
illegally issuing or forging documents

Because the documents entitling you to receive drugs or psychotropic substances have been illegally issued or forged,
deprived of the right to work for up to two years in correctional work or to hold a particular position or to engage in a particular job
sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years with or without imprisonment.

Article 301 Organizing the use of drugs or psychotropic substances during public events

During family celebrations, holidays, walks, or other public events, drugs or psychotropics
because it dries up the use of substances,
the average monthly wage with or without the obligation to live in a particular place for a period of two to five years;
the duty to impose a fine in the amount of one to two hundred of the amount, or to live in a certain place for a period of two to five years.
is punishable by imprisonment for up to five years with or without charge.

Article 302 Illegal trafficking of strong-acting or toxic substances

(1) It is illegal for the purpose of selling highly effective or poisonous substances without drugs or psychotropic substances.
because it has been prepared, processed, acquired, stored, transported or shipped, as well as illegally sold,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) Such actions, if:
a) again;
b) was carried out by a group of persons in advance of the language,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.

Article 303 Violation of the rules for the use of strong-acting or toxic substances

Production, acquisition, storage, registration of strong-acting or toxic substances without narcotics or psychotropic substances
for violations of the rules of receipt, release, transportation or shipment, if it is caused by their theft or serious damage
led to the delivery,
a fine of between twenty-five and seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage, or a fine of up to three years;
in correctional labor for up to two years with or without the deprivation of the right to work or occupy a particular position;
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.

1
Article
303 A drug containing tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other psychoactive substances

illicit trafficking of funds

(1) Sale of medicines containing tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other psychoactive substances
for the purpose of large-scale illegal preparation, acquisition, storage, transportation or shipment, as well as tramadol
hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other drugs containing psychoactive substances for one year due to illicit trafficking
tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other
the sale of medicines containing psychoactive substances,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of one to three years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.
(2) The acts provided for in the first part of this article, if they:
a) again;
b) if it was committed by a group of people in advance;
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years without receiving or receiving his property free of charge.
Note.
1. List of medicines containing tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other psychoactive substances and large
the amount is established by the regulatory legal acts of Turkmenistan.
2. Drugs containing tramadol hydrochloride (other products of tramadol) or other psychoactive substances that contain
the person who voluntarily surrenders is exempted from criminal liability for the acts provided for in this article.
1
3. A person who has committed an offense under this Article may have committed
one or more of the offenses provided for in Articles 292-294 and 303 of this Code.

if he did, the crime was reconsidered.
(In edition of the Laws of Turkmenistan of March 1, 2014 and February 2, 2015 Proceedings of the Parliament, 2014, No. 1, Article 44, 2015, No. 1, Article 9).

Article 304 Illegal manufacture and sale of strong home-made alcoholic beverages

(1) whether or not home-made alcoholic beverages have been illegally manufactured or stored for sale, or for their manufacture;
whether or not the equipment is designed or sold for sale, as well as the specified alcohol or equipment
because it was sold
imposing a fine of between fifty and one hundred and fifty of the average monthly wage, or taking property for free or
sentenced to two years in prison without pay.
(2) If such acts have been committed by a group of persons in the language of repetition or preliminary language,
from seventy-two to two hundred of the average monthly wage without taking or receiving property for free;
shall be fined in the amount of two years or five years without taking or receiving his property free of charge.

Article 305 Arrangement or storage of resorts for drinking

Accommodation or storage of alcoholic beverages, as well as the provision of housing on a regular basis.
for, if these violations were repeated within a year after the imposition of administrative penalties,
is fined between five and ten of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to two years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 306 Illegal taking, possession, placement of snake venom

Because the snake venom was illegally obtained, acquired, and placed,
imposition of a fine of up to forty-eight per cent of the average monthly wage or adjustment of up to two years;
is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years for operating or receiving property without pay or without pay.

1
Article
306 Preparation, acquisition, storage, transportation, shipment of nasal for sale

Large-scale preparation, acquisition, storage, transportation or shipment of nasal for sale, as well as nasal
preparation, acquisition, storage, transportation, shipping, sale or use for one year
for the sale of nas by a person who has been twice punished,
is fined between fifty and one hundred of the average monthly wage, or in correctional labor for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
Note.
1. The amount of nas specified in this Article shall be determined by the regulatory legal acts of Turkmenistan.
2. A person who voluntarily surrenders his or her possession is exempt from criminal liability for this offense.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 307 Illegal engaging in private medical or private pharmaceutical activities

(1) By a person without a license for a particular type of work with a private medical or private pharmaceutical activity;
because of his or her occupation, if, as a result of such action, his or her health has been severely damaged due to negligence,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to thirty salaries or a fine of up to two years.
(2) For such conduct as may be harmful to human health in severe or moderate severity,
remuneration for a period of up to three years, with or without the right to work or hold a particular position;
is fined between forty and one hundred of the average monthly salary, or is employed for a certain period of time for up to three years;
is also punishable by imprisonment for up to three years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities.
(3) If the action provided for in the first or second part of this article causes the death of the victim due to negligence,
up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 308 Violation of sanitary-epidemiological rules

(1) Violation of sanitary-epidemiological rules may lead to mass disease or poisoning of people due to carelessness.
because he brought
up to two years in correctional labor or up to two years in prison.
(2) For the same act that resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 309 Disclosure of information that poses a threat to people's lives or health

(1) On accidents with harmful environmental consequences, on the extent of environmental damage, as well as on the population
carried out by persons obliged to provide such information, other persons endangering the life or health of the persons
because information about events, information, or events is hidden or distorted,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to twenty monthly wages or correctional labor up to two years.
(2) For any such act that harms human health or results in other adverse consequences,
to impose a fine in the amount of fifty to one hundred of the average monthly wage, or to a certain position for up to three years;
imprisonment for up to three years with or without deprivation of the right to work or employment
is given.

Article 310 Release or sale of goods that do not meet security requirements, provision of services

(1) The release or sale of goods that do not meet the safety requirements for the life or health of the recipients,
delivery or service, as well as compliance with the safety requirements of the goods, works or services provided
because of the illegal issuance or use of official documents proving the arrival, if these actions are due to negligence
if it is harmful to human health,
the average salary for a period of up to three years, or deprivation of the right to hold a particular job;
a fine of from twenty-five to seventy-five per month, or imprisonment for up to two years;
is given.
(2) Such acts have resulted in the death of a person due to negligence or two or more acts of negligence.
if it harms a person's health,
shall be fined between forty and one hundred per cent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to five years.
deprivation is punishable.

CHAPTER 31. ENVIRONMENTAL CRIMES

Article 311 Violation of environmental safety regulations during operations

Environmental, environmental, industrial, agricultural, scientific, and other projects in the area of ​placement, construction, commissioning
because the rules are violated by the people responsible for enforcing them, if that action is harmful to human health,
if it caused a mass death or a drastic change in the radioactive state that resulted in other serious consequences,
up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.

Article 312 Transportation, storage and recycling of environmentally hazardous substances and waste
violation of the rules

(1) Disposal, storage, burial or destruction of substances and wastes harmful to human life or health in accordance with the established rules;
and if reuse poses a serious threat to human health or the environment,
in the amount of ten to thirty average monthly wages or in correctional labor up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) which has caused pollution, poisoning or damage to the environment, or the massacre of animals, or
for such acts that are detrimental to human health,
sentenced to up to three years in prison.
(3) For the acts provided for in the first part of this Article, which have resulted in the mass illness or death of a person,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 313 Water pollution

(1) Surface and groundwater, drinking water sources are contaminated, damaged, degraded or their natural
because their originality has changed in some way, if those conditions apply to the animal or flora, fish stocks, forests or agriculture.
if it has caused serious damage,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to thirty salaries or a fine of up to two years.
(2) Inadequate human health or mass slaughter of animals due to negligence, as well as
or for such actions taken within the boundaries or in an emergency zone,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
a fine of between twenty-five and seventy-five per cent of the average monthly payment or imprisonment for up to three years;
is punished for doing.
(3) For the act provided for in the first or second part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.

1
Article
313 Theft of water resources

(1) Theft of water resources by the excavation of the banks of irrigation canals, the opening of layers, the use of special equipment, the drinking
use of drinking water for irrigation, as well as for other types and methods of water theft,
fined from fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly wage or sentenced to up to three years in prison
is punished for doing.
(2) If such acts have been committed against the person protecting the water facility or the use of force, or irrigation
damage to facilities or human casualties, as well as other serious consequences,
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.

2
Article
313 Violation of water supply regulations

(1) The disruption of water supply to the municipality, as well as the internal flow of agricultural land;
due to poor maintenance, if these practices cause serious violations of the water supply regulations or the animal or plant
if it has caused serious damage to the world or to agriculture,
to impose a fine of thirty to fifty times the average monthly wage or to work in correctional labor for up to two years
is punished.
(2) Such actions may be detrimental to human health or the mass slaughter of animals, damage to irrigation facilities.
or if it has led to other serious consequences,
fines up to fifty percent of the average monthly wage or imprisonment for up to three years
is punished.
(3) Similar acts have been committed against a person protecting a water facility or by threatening to use violence or a person
if he caused his victims,
sentenced to three to five years in prison.
2
Article 313 of the
Code is added in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of March 20, 2017 - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.

Information, 2017, No. 1, Article 29.

Article 314 Atmospheric pollution

(1) With the increase in the rules established as a result of violation of the rules of operation of facilities or other facilities,
due to contamination or other changes in its natural identity, if such actions have caused significant damage to the surrounding natural environment.
if
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to thirty salaries or a fine of up to two years.
(2) For such acts that are detrimental to human health due to negligence,
remuneration with or without deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years
a fine of between twenty-five and seventy-five per cent of the average monthly payment or imprisonment for up to three years;
is punished for doing.
(3) For acts that cause the death of a person due to negligence, provided for in the first or second paragraph of this Article,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.

Article 315 Marine pollution

(1) the inland or territorial waters of Turkmenistan, as well as the open sea waters formed from land sources;
burial or transportation of substances, waste and materials harmful to human health and the health of marine life;
because of pollution from the means or from the facilities built at sea, as a result of the violation of the rules of discharge,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to thirty salaries or a fine of up to two years.
(2) To human health, the animal or plant world, fish stocks, the surrounding environment, recreation area, or by law;
for such action, which has gravely damaged other protected interests,
imposing a fine of between twenty-five and seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage, or up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.
(3) For the act provided for in the first or second part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.

Article 316 Violation of Continental Shelf legislation

(1) the illegal construction of facilities and other structures on the continental shelves of Turkmenistan, or in the vicinity of Turkmenistan;
due to the illegal creation of a security zone in a particular economic zone, as well as such facilities, structures and ships
for violations of the rules of construction, use, protection and closure of means that ensure the safety of traffic,
in the amount of ten to thirty average monthly wages or in correctional labor up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) without the permission of the natural resources of the continental shelves of Turkmenistan or the special economic zone of Turkmenistan;
for research, development, development,
to work for a period of up to three years or with or without the deprivation of the right to hold a particular position;
in the amount of twenty to forty average monthly wages, or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 317 Earthquake

(1) Use of toxic chemicals, fertilizers, plant growth accelerators and other hazardous chemical or biological substances.
soil contamination, contamination or other damage caused by harmful household products or other activities as a result of violation of the rules
damage to the natural environment or agriculture in the area when they are stored, used and transported due to quality damage.
for
in the amount of ten to thirty average monthly wages or in correctional labor up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) In the event of negligence or damage to human health, as well as in an environmentally hazardous area or in an environmentally hazardous environment;
because such actions have been taken in the case zone,
the average salary for a period of up to three years, or deprivation of the right to hold a particular job;
a fine of from twenty-five to seventy-five per month or imprisonment for a term of up to three years;
is given.
(3) For the act provided for in the first or second part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.

1
Article
317 Self-occupation of lands

Farmers' associations and other public associations, as well as state-owned enterprises, institutions, organizations
for self-occupation, plowing and planting of lands in use,
is levied a fine of between twenty and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage, or
sentenced to up to three years in prison.

Article 318 Illegal taking of animals and plants in the water

(1) Violation of the established rules of fish, marine wildlife and other aquatic animals or artisanal marine plants
because of the fact that these acts were committed by a group of pre-linguistic people or by the use of official position.
if it has been carried out through, as well as to a large extent, damage,
is fined between fifteen and thirty of the average monthly wage or adjusted for a term of up to two years;
is punishable by imprisonment for up to one year or imprisonment for up to one year.
(2) Where dumping (seed) is dumped, or on public transit routes, or on self-propelled vehicles, explosives,
for a similar action performed using chemicals, electricity or other methods of mass destruction,
is fined between ten and thirty times the average monthly wage or corrected for up to two years
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.

(3) Consider in the second part of this Article by a group of persons on preliminary communication or by the use of official position.
because the intended actions have been taken, as well as for large-scale damage,
is fined between twenty-five and seventy-five of the average monthly wage or for a term of up to two years;
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 319 Violation of the rules for the protection and use of underground resources

When designing mining or underground facilities that have nothing to do with minerals,
violation of the rules for the conservation and use of underground resources during their placement, construction, commissioning and use,
as well as the fact that they have built their own houses in the fields where the minerals are being mined, if these actions cause significant damage.
if delivered
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be punished with a fine of from ten to thirty salaries or a fine of up to two years.

Article 320 Violation of fisheries protection regulations

Due to the construction of bridges, dams, explosions and other activities in violation of the rules of protection of fish stocks,
as well as for the use of layers and pumping equipment, if these actions are to prevent the spread of fish or other aquatic animals.
if it has led to mass slaughter, considerable destruction of fodder stocks, or other serious consequences,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
a fine of from twenty-five to seventy-five per month, or a fine of up to two years in correctional labor;
is given.

Article 321 Illegal aw

Because he violated the established rules of hunting, he carried out hunting of animals and birds, if he did so:
a) with great damage;
(b) Mechanical vehicles, explosives, gases and other methods of mass slaughter of wild animals and birds
using;
c) within the reserve;
(d) In the case of wild animals and birds whose hunting is strictly prohibited;
e) using the position of service;
e) if it was done by a group of people who spoke in advance,
is fined between twenty-five and seventy-five of the average monthly wage or for a term of up to two years;
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to two years.
Note
At the prescribed rate of animals and birds, the damage caused by illegal hunting specified in this article
the calculated value is calculated to be more than twenty times the average monthly wage.
(Laws of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013, March 1, 2014 and November 8, 2014)
in the wording - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, Article 77, 2014, No. 1, Article 44; No. 4, Article 145).

Article 322 Illegal logging of trees and shrubs

(1) In forests belonging to the first group or in specially protected areas of forests belonging to all groups, as well as to the state forest fund or
illegal logging of trees and shrubs that are not included in the prohibited fund of felling, as well as of trees and shrubs
because the trees have been damaged until they stop growing, if these actions have caused significant damage,
in the amount of ten to twenty percent of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to two years
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) Illegal logging of trees and shrubs belonging to all groups, as well as those not included in the state forest fund, as well as
because they have been damaged until they cease to exist, if such actions:
a) again;
b) by a person who has exercised his official position;
c) if carried out on a large scale,
imposition of a fine in the amount of twenty-five to fifty percent of the average monthly salary or correction of up to two years
in his work is given the body to run.
Note.
Loss of the average wage at the time of commission of the crime, established by the legislation of Turkmenistan
the amount exceeding five times the calculated rate at the prescribed rate is a substantial amount in this article, and its twenty-five times greater
is recognized as a volume.

Article 323 Destruction or destruction of forest complexes

(1) Accidental destruction by burning forest complexes or other nature facilities or by any other method of general danger
because it did or was damaged,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.
(2) The destruction of forest complexes as a result of inattentive treatment of fire or other sources that are highly dangerous, or
because of the damage
imposing a fine of twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage, or up to two years
correctional labor is punishable by imprisonment.

Article 324 Violation of the rules of specially protected natural areas and natural facilities

Reserves, nature reserves, national parks, nature reserves and other nature reserves that are specially protected by the state
for the violation of the rules of the land, which has caused considerable damage,
an average of five years of service or deprivation of the right to work or a certain occupation;
shall be liable to a fine of from twenty to forty rupees a month or to correctional labor for up to two years.

CHAPTER 32. CRIMES AGAINST VEHICLES AND VEHICLES OF USE

Article 325 Rules for the movement of rail, water or air transport and the safety of its use
violation

(1) The operation and operation of rail, air, sea or river transport vehicles by their performance or occupation;
with a large amount of damage caused by negligence on the part of the person who must ensure the observance of the security rules.
for violating the rules,
deprivation of the right to work in a particular position for up to five years, or to a certain position for up to three years
the average monthly wage with or without the deprivation of the right to work or employment
to impose a fine in the amount of twenty-five to fifty rupees, or to hold a certain position for three years, or with a particular job;
is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years with or without deprivation of the right to practice.
(2) For such action as may cause serious or moderate damage to the health of the victim due to negligence;
for up to three years with or without the deprivation of the right to work or occupy a particular position for up to two years;
to be employed in correctional work up to or up to three years in a certain position or to be deprived of the right to engage in a particular activity
with or without imprisonment for up to three years.
(3) If the action provided for in the first part of this article has resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.
(4) If the act provided for in the first part of this article has resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
from six to ten years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment up to.
Note.
If the damage exceeds the average monthly wage, it shall be recognized as a substantial amount of damage in this article.
is done.

Article 326 Violation of the rules of the road and the use of vehicles

(1) Traffic or vehicle traffic by a person driving a motor vehicle, motorcycle or other mechanical vehicle.
if it has been severely damaged due to negligence due to a violation of the rules of use,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
to impose a fine of twenty-five to fifty per cent of the average monthly payment, or to hold a position for a term of up to three years;
or the penalty of imprisonment for up to two years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity;
is given.
Notes.
1. If the damage caused is more than seventy-five of the average monthly amount of compensation for labor, it shall be the maximum amount of damage in this article.
is recognized as.
2. A person who has voluntarily compensated for the damage in full shall be exempted from the criminal liability provided for in the first part of this Article.
is released.
(2) For such an act which has caused serious harm to the health of the person due to negligence,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
is fined between forty and one hundred of the average monthly salary, or is employed for a certain period of time for up to three years;
or up to two years of correctional labor or deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities or deprivation of liberty.
imprisonment for up to five years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or occupy a particular position;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) For the action provided for in the first part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
up to seven years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years
sentenced to imprisonment.
(4) For an act provided for in the first part of this article, for the act of negligence resulting in the death of two or more persons,
from five to ten years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment up to.
Note.
The person who committed the acts provided for in the second, third or fourth paragraph of this article shall, if necessary, provide assistance to the victim.
if he takes all possible measures, the penalty shall be less than half of the maximum amount provided for in the sanction of the relevant part of this article.
cannot be higher.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

1
Article
326 Drunk driving

(1) For the purpose of driving under the influence of intoxication, if this negligence has resulted in a serious or serious injury to human health or
if it has caused material damage in the absence of
imprisonment for a term of up to two years or imprisonment for a term of six months, deprived of the right to work or engage in a particular profession
is punished for doing.
(2) For drunk driving by persons who do not have the right to drive a vehicle, if this
if the act has led to the results provided for in the first part of this article,
imposing a fine of twenty-five to fifty per cent of the average monthly wage, or imprisonment for up to one year;
deprivation is punishable.
(3) In the cases provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, the driver shall be subject to the appropriate medical examination in the prescribed manner.
refusal to pass,
imposing a fine of thirty to sixty per cent of the average monthly wage, or imprisonment for up to two years;
deprivation is punishable.
(4) If the offenses referred to in this Article have been committed by a person convicted earlier in two years,
sentenced to up to two years in prison.

Notes
1. If the material damage is from ten to seventy-five percent of the average monthly wage, it shall be covered by this article.
is recognized as a small amount of damage.

Page 12

2. A person who has voluntarily fully compensated for the material damage caused by a minor shall be provided for in the first part of this article.
is released from criminal liability.
1
The Code should
include 326 articles in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - by the Mejlis of Turkmenistan.

Information, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of June 18, 2016 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2016, No. 2, 98Article).

Article 327 Poor maintenance of vehicles and their failure to operate technically

(1) Poor maintenance of vehicles, vehicles, warning or communication equipment or vehicle equipment
as well as technical malfunctions by the person in charge of the technical condition of the technical equipment.
because the funds have been used, if these actions have caused significant damage due to negligence,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
to impose a fine in the amount of twenty to fifty per cent of the average monthly salary, or to hold a particular position for up to three years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity.
(2) For such acts that cause serious or moderate harm to human health due to negligence,
up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years
deprivation of the right to work in correctional work or to hold a particular position for up to three years, or to engage in a particular job, or
sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years without imprisonment.
(3) For the acts provided for in the first part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(4) For the acts provided for in the first part of this article, for actions that resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 328 Malfunction of vehicles or lanes

(1) Damage, damage or other means to the vehicle, traffic warnings or other vehicle equipment
because it has been damaged by, if these actions have caused,
imposition of a fine in the amount of twenty-five to fifty percent of the average monthly salary or correction of up to two years
are punishable by employment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(2) For such an action which, due to negligence, has caused serious or moderate harm to human health,
up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years
with deprivation of the right to work in correctional work or to hold a particular position for up to three years or to engage in a particular activity
or sentenced to imprisonment for up to four years without imprisonment.
(3) For the acts provided for in the first part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(4) For the acts provided for in the first part of this article, for actions that resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
sentenced to four to eight years in prison.

Article 329 Violation of rules that ensure the safe operation of the vehicle

(1) Passengers, pedestrians or other participants in traffic safety regulations for the movement or use of vehicles shall have the right to:
Because these actions were violated by people other than those specified in Articles 325 and 326 of the Code,
if it has caused serious harm to human health,
imposition of a fine in the amount of twenty to forty per cent of the average monthly wage or adjustment of up to two years;
is punishable by employment in their work.
(2) For the same act that resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
up to two years in correctional labor or imprisonment for up to three years.
(3) For the act provided for in the first part of this article, for an act which resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
sentenced to three to six years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of May 3, 2014 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2014, No. 2, 77Article).

Article 330 Violation of safety regulations when constructing, using or repairing main pipelines

(1) Due to a violation of safety regulations during the construction, operation or maintenance of main pipelines, if this action is serious
if it has caused a significant amount of damage,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
imposing a fine of between twenty and forty of the average monthly amount of payment, or working in a particular position for up to three years;
or the penalty of operating in correctional labor for up to two years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity;
is given.
(2) For such an action which, due to negligence, has caused serious or moderate harm to human health,
up to two years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years
with deprivation of the right to work in correctional work or to hold a particular position for up to three years or to engage in a particular activity
or sentenced to imprisonment for up to three years without imprisonment.
(3) For the action provided for in the first part of this article, which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(4) For the act provided for in the first part of this article, which resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 331 No assistance from the captain of the wrecked ship

People who have crashed at sea or on other waterways, if they do not receive such assistance from the captain of the ship,
if his crew and passengers can be assisted in a safe manner,
imposing a fine of twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of the average monthly wage, or up to two years
correctional labor or imprisonment for up to two years.

Article 332 Violation of international flight rules

Non-compliance with the directions, landings, air gates, flight altitudes specified in the permit, or international flights
for other violations of the rules,
the average salary for a period of up to three years, or deprivation of the right to hold a particular job;
to impose a fine of twenty-five to seventy-five per month, or to work in correctional labor for up to two years, or two
sentenced to up to one year in prison.

SECTION XIII. COMPUTER INFORMATION
CRIMES IN THE FIELD

CHAPTER 33 . INFORMATION AND
CRIMES IN COMMUNICATION

Article 333 Information, information system or information-telecommunication network
illegal interference

(1) Information stored in electronic media and protected by law, information system or information and telecommunication network
for the intentional unlawful interference, if the rights and legitimate interests of these individuals or legal entities, the society and the state
if it has caused a serious breach of its statutory interests,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of between twenty and fifty of the average monthly amount of payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or
is punishable by a term of imprisonment of up to one year with or without deprivation of the right to engage in the same activity.
(2) Similar acts have been committed in respect of national electronic information sources and the national information system;
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of between thirty and seventy of the average monthly payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to two years, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this article, if they have resulted in serious consequences out of negligence,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
to impose a fine of from forty to one hundred of the average monthly amount of payment, or to hold a certain position for three years, or
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to two years, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in the same activity. ”
Article 333 should be added to the Code in the wording of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan
Information, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 334 Illegal deletion or alteration of the information

(1) In the information system or through the information and telecommunication network, stored in electronic media, protected by law
the intentional unauthorized destruction or alteration of information, as well as the appearance of false information in the information system;
for the purpose of enacting, if these acts are committed by the law the rights and legitimate interests of individuals or legal entities, society or the state.
if it has led to a serious breach of its protected interests,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of between twenty and seventy of the average monthly amount of payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years with or without deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities.
(2) Similar acts have been committed in respect of national electronic information sources and the national information system;
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
imposing a fine of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly payment, or working in a particular position for up to three years, or a certain
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to two years, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in employment.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they have resulted in serious consequences or in the case of preliminary language
if done by a group of people or an organized group,
from three to seven years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years;
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term up to. ”
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

1
Article
334 Normal operation of the information system and information and telecommunication network

to break
(1) Disruption of normal operation of the information system and information and telecommunication network
for intentional intentional acts,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or a certain
is punishable by up to two years in correctional labor, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in employment.
(2) Similar acts have been committed in respect of national electronic information sources and the national information system;
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
to be fined from one hundred to one hundred and fifty of the average monthly amount of payment, or to work in a particular position for three years, or
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they have resulted in serious consequences or in the case of preliminary language
if done by a group of people or an organized group,
from five to ten years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.

2 334 Illegal possession of information
Article

(1) In the information system or through the information and telecommunication network, stored in electronic media, protected by law
for the purpose of knowingly or illegally obtaining a copy of the information, if any of these acts have been committed by individuals or legal entities;
if it has caused a serious violation of their rights and legitimate interests, the legitimate interests of society or the state,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of between forty and seventy of the average monthly payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or
is punishable by imprisonment for up to one year without deprivation or deprivation of the right to engage in a particular activity.
(2) The use of the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the use of force, the destruction or destruction of property, as well as the victim or
threatening to disseminate other information that would disgrace his or her close relatives or cause serious harm to their interests
because it is occupied by
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or a certain
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to two years, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in employment.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they are national electronic information sources and national information
if done with respect to the system,
from three to seven years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.
(4) The acts provided for in the first, second and third paragraphs of this article, if they have resulted in serious consequences or have been premeditated.
by a group of people or an organized group,
from five to ten years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.

3
Article
334 Dissemination of obviously false information

(1) For the dissemination of material misrepresentation, if this is the case with individuals or legal entities
their rights and legitimate interests, the society and the state are protected by law
which has led to a serious violation of their interests or a genuine violation of public order.
if it can pose a threat,
imposition of a fine from forty to seventy of the average monthly salary or correction for a period of one year
is punishable by imprisonment for up to one year or imprisonment for up to one year.
(2) Such acts shall be deemed to have been committed by a group of persons using the state of service or by preliminary language communication, or
if it is done through the use of mass media or information and telecommunications networks,
in the amount of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or up to one year in prison.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they are to cause significant damage or other serious consequences.
if brought
imposing a fine of from seventy to one hundred and fifty per cent of the average monthly wage or fixing it for a term of up to two years;
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(4) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they are carried out in public events or by an organized group;
by or under a state of emergency or martial law,
is punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years. ”
2
The Code was 1introduced
in3accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015, which should include Articles 334, 334, 334 - Law of Turkmenistan

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

Article 335 Malware creation, use and distribution

(1) In the information system or through the information and telecommunication network, stored in electronic media, protected by law
illegal deletion of information, computer, subscriber structure, computer programs, information system or informationthe creation of computer programs or software products to disrupt the normal operation of the telecommunications network;
manufactured or modified to existing programs or software products, their packaging, image
modification, sampling, as well as the intentional use of such programs or software products, or
because of its spread,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a certain position for up to two years
imposing a fine of fifty to one hundred percent of the average monthly payment, or working in a particular position for up to two years, or a certain
shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, with or without deprivation of the right to engage in employment.
(2) Such acts shall be deemed to be in respect of national electronic information sources and the national information system or the use of official status.
if done with
from three to seven years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to hold or hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they have resulted in serious consequences or in the case of preliminary language
if done by a group of people or an organized group,
from five to ten years without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term up to. ”
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2015, No. 4, 144Article).

1
Article
335 Illegal distribution of restricted electronic information sources

(1) information restricted by the owner or the owner, including the citizens, by the legislation of Turkmenistan;
for the illegal distribution of information sources containing personal information,
the average monthly wage for a period of up to two years, depriving you of the right to work or to hold a particular job;
to impose a fine of from forty to seventy of the amount, or to hold a certain position for up to two years, or with a certain job;
deprived of the right to work and sentenced to a term of imprisonment of up to one year.
(2) Such acts shall be deemed to have been effected by the use of a public position;
the average monthly wage, deprived of the right to work or hold a particular job for up to three years
to impose a fine in the amount of fifty to a hundred of the amount, or to hold a certain position for three years, or to engage in a certain activity;
shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they have resulted in serious consequences or in the case of preliminary language
if done by a group of people or an organized group,
for a period of three to seven years, depriving him of the right to hold a position or to hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.

2
Article
335 Provision of services for the placement of Internet resources that track illegal purposes

(1) The deployment of Internet-based tracking devices, as well as open-source information and telecommunications networks;
for the apparent illegal service of providing hardware and software packages,
the average monthly wage for a period of up to two years, depriving you of the right to work or to hold a particular job;
to impose a fine of fifty to seventy rupees, or to hold a certain position for two years, or with a certain job;
sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years with deprivation of the right to employment.
(2) Similar acts, if they have been committed by a group of people or by an organized group on preliminary speaking,
for a period of three to seven years, depriving him of the right to hold a position or to hold a particular position for up to three years;
sentenced to imprisonment.

3
Article
335 Cellular Communications Device Equivalence Code, Client Identification Device Code

illegal modification, as well as the illegal creation of a program to modify the customer code of the device,
use, dissemination

(1) Illegal modification of the equivalence code of a mobile communication client device without the permission of the manufacturer or legal owner;
or a high-frequency operating system with a radio-electronic component, as well as a duplication card for a cellular subscriber equalization.
for the creation of technical communication equipment (Internet gateways),
in the amount of fifty to seventy per cent of the average monthly wage or in correctional labor for up to one year
is punishable by imprisonment.
(2) The cellular customer has the right to modify the device's equivalence code or to change the cellular customer's card.
for the illegal creation, use or distribution of a program that allows for the creation of duplication,
imposing a fine of seventy to one hundred percent of the average monthly wage or fixing it for a period of one year
sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years.
(3) The acts provided for in the first and second paragraphs of this Article, if they have been committed by an organized group,
sentenced to three to five years in prison. ”
2
The Code was 1introduced
in3accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of November 21, 2015, which should include Articles 335, 335, 335 - Law of Turkmenistan

Proceedings of the Parliament, 2015, No. 4, Article 144.

SECTION XIV. MILITARY CRIMES

CHAPTER 34. MILITARY CRIMES

Article 336 The concept of military crimes

(1) In the Armed Forces, Border Troops, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, against the established procedure for the conduct of military service as military offenses.
in the internal troops of the Ministry of Defense, in the national security forces and in the institutions, in other cases provided for by the military service by law.
military personnel serving in the armies of ministries and departments, as well as during military assemblies;
The offenses provided for in this chapter shall be recognized as committed by the reserve citizens.
(2) Criminal liability for a crime committed against military service in the period of martial law shall be determined by the martial law of Turkmenistan.
is determined.

Article 337 Failure to comply with the order

(1) If the failure to comply with the order given by the supervisor under his or her subordination in the prescribed manner has seriously damaged the interests of the agency,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to three years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such action, which has been carried out by a group of persons in the language of preliminary communication, as well as with serious consequences,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.
(4) Failure to comply with the order as a result of cold treatment or dishonesty,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(5) For action taken in the event of a war provided for in the fourth part of this article,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

1
Article
337 Betrayal

(1) Violation of a military oath formally accepted by a military officer if such actions are motivated by greed or other personal
and in the interests of the Service, the rights and legitimate interests of military personnel and other citizens.
if damaged,
up to two years in military service, or up to two years in a military correctional facility, or up to three to five years.
sentenced to imprisonment.
(2) For such an action that has serious consequences,
sentenced to five to eight years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison.
1
The Code was amended
in accordance with the Law of Turkmenistan of November 30, 2019 to include Article 337 -

Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2019, No. 4, Article __

Article 338 Leadership resistance or compulsion to violate military service obligations

(1) In addition, the other person is also charged with felony criminal mischief for failing to comply with his or her military duty.
because he is compelled to violate those obligations by using or threatening to use it,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to five years
is punished for doing.
(2) Such actions:
a) was carried out by a group of persons in advance of the language;
b) carried out by the use of weapons;
c) if it has caused serious or moderate damage to human health or has resulted in other serious consequences;
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.

Article 339 Violent acts against the leader

(1) whether he or she has beaten a commander while performing military service or in connection with the performance of those duties;
for committing other acts of violence in connection with
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to five years
is punished for doing.
(2) Such actions:
a) was carried out by a group of persons in advance of the language;
b) carried out by the use of weapons;
c) if it has caused serious or moderate damage to human health or has resulted in other serious consequences;
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.

Article 340 Mutual relations between military personnel in the absence of subordinate relations
violation of the rules of the relationship

(1) In the absence of subordinate relations between military personnel, the relationship between them shall be regulated.
for breach of the rules in connection with mockery of the victim or injury to the health of an average weight,
sentenced to up to two years in the military correctional unit or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) Such action:
a) again;
(b) with respect to two or more persons;
c) by a group of pre-speech people;
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) carried out by the use of a firearm provided for in the first or second part of this article or with serious consequences.
if
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 341 A mockery of a military officer

(1) While on duty or in connection with the performance of his military service, another
if he has been subjected to disciplinary action for such acts for the discrimination of a military officer,
imprisonment for up to one year in the military service or detention in the military correctional unit for up to one year.
(2) a subordinate officer in the performance of or in connection with the performance of his military duty, as well as
the disobedience of the subordinate to the authority, if such disciplinary action had previously been subject to disciplinary action,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years.

Article 342 Unauthorized return of a department or place of service

(1) that he has left his unit or place of service unauthorized, as well as when he is allowed to leave the department, when he is appointed to one place, to another;
on the ground, on return from service visit, leave without a valid reason for service, or by call from a medical institution
because the conscripts did not arrive for more than three days but not more than ten days;
the military correctional service is punishable by up to two years in prison.
(2) For similar acts committed by military personnel in the Military Correctional Facility,
sentenced to up to two years in prison.
(3) A military unit or place of service by conscripts who are serving in the conscription or conscription;
that he had been abandoned without permission, and that he had not, for good reason, been in office for more than ten days, but not more than one month;
because he did not return on a regular basis,
imprisonment for up to two years in the military or imprisonment for up to two years in the military-correctional unit or imprisonment for up to three years
is punished for doing.
(4) For the acts provided for in the third part of this article, if the duration of the unauthorized days exceeds one month,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(5) For acts of warfare provided for in this Article, if the duration of the unauthorized period is overnight,
if it passes by day,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
Note.
A military serviceman who performs the action provided for in paragraph 1 of this article for the first time, if his unit or place of service
unauthorized abandonment may result in criminal liability if the consequences are severe.

Article 343 Escape

(1) that he had fled in order to refuse military service, i.e., that he had left the unit without permission, and that he had also fled for that purpose;
because he did not come to serve,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(2) Fugitives with a firearm authorized by the Service, as well as fugitives by a group of pre-speech persons
because he did
sentenced to five to ten years in prison.
(3) For fugitives committed in a state of war,
sentenced to eight to twenty years in prison.
Note.
A military serviceman who has committed a fugitive for the first time under the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall
may be released from criminal liability if it is caused by a transfer.

Article 344 Refusal to perform military service or to refuse by other means

(1) A military serviceman may have been ill from performing military service or may have sustained a personal injury.
(intentional bodily harm) or falsification of documents or any other form of deception, thereby
as well as for refusing to perform military service duties,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years.
(2) For such actions taken for the purpose of complete exemption from the performance of military service duties,
sentenced to seven years in prison.
(3) For acts of warfare provided for in this Article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.

Article 345 Violation of the rules of duty on duty

(1) To ensure timely response to the sudden invasion of Turkmenistan and its repulsion, or to ensure its security;
for violating the rules of duty on the battlefield (military service), if this action is in the interests of state security
if it is harmful or may cause
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to five years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such actions that have resulted in serious consequences,
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.
(4) Because of his cold-blooded or dishonest treatment of standing on duty (combat service), his provisions
if the violation has had serious consequences,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to three years
is punished for doing.
(5) If the acts provided for in the fourth part of this article are committed in a state of war,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 346 Violation of the rules of stay at the border service

(1) Staying in the border service by a person who is part of the Border Patrol or who performs other duties of the Border Service
because of the violation of the rules, if the action is or could be detrimental to the interests of state security,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to three years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such actions that have resulted in serious consequences,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) Violation of its rules due to cold-blooded or dishonest treatment of border guards has had serious consequences.
if
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.

Article 347 Violation of the charter regulations of the Guards

(1) In violation of the charter (charter) rules of the guard (watch) service by a person who is a member of the guard (wahta),
if this action has damaged the objects protected by the guard (wahta),
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such an action that has serious consequences,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.
(4) Violation of its charter due to cold-blooded or dishonest treatment of the watchdog service;
if it has serious consequences,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(5) For acts of war, provided for in the fourth part of this article,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.

Article 348 Implementation of the Public Security and Public Security Service
violation of the rules

(1) An army of rules for the implementation of the Service for the Protection of Public Order and the Provision of Public Security

Page 13

violation of the rights or legitimate interests of citizens if it is violated by a person who is part of the
if
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such actions that have resulted in serious consequences,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.

Article 349 Violation of the rules of law enforcement and patrol in the garrison

(1) by a person entering the day-to-day process of the Department of Internal Affairs (except guard and watch)
violations, as well as the violation of the garrison patrol regulations by a person entering the patrol yard,
if these actions have had serious consequences,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such acts committed in a state of war,
sentenced to one to five years in prison.

Article 350 Abandonment of a wrecked warship

(1) An order from a commander who has not fulfilled his duty of duty to the end, as well as from the composition of the ship by a commander
for the abandonment of a warship, which was destroyed by an unmanned person,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(2) For such action taken in a state of war,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.

Article 351 Deliberate destruction or destruction of military property

(1) For the intentional destruction of firearms, ammunition or military equipment,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service, or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to five years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such actions that have resulted in serious consequences,
sentenced to three to eight years in prison.
(3) For acts of war, provided for in the first or second part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.

Article 352 Destruction or destruction of military property due to negligence

(1) Because of negligence, the destruction, damage, or destruction of weapons, ammunition, or military equipment may result in serious consequences.
if brought
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such acts committed in a state of war,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 353 Cruel treatment of military property

(1) Violation of the rules for the safe storage of weapons, ammunition or military equipment entrusted for use in the service
for, if this has resulted in their loss,
imprisonment for up to two years in military service or detention in a military correctional facility for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to two years
is punished for doing.
(2) For such action taken in a state of war,
sentenced to two to seven years in prison.
(3) that a conscripted soldier has sold items, official clothing, or equipment provided for his or her use;
for pledge or use (expenditure),
the military correctional unit is punishable by up to one year in prison.
(4) For acts of war, provided for in the third part of this article,
sentenced to five years in prison.

Article 354 Violations of the rules for the use of weapons and objects that are extremely dangerous to those around them

(1) Rules for the use of weapons, ammunition, explosives or other substances and objects that are extremely dangerous to those around them.
because of the violation, if he or she has caused serious or moderate damage to the health of the person due to negligence, the person who destroyed the military equipment
or if it has other serious consequences,
a military correctional officer is punishable by up to two years in prison or up to three years in prison.
(2) For such an act which resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) For the act provided for in the first part of this article, for an act which resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
sentenced to three to fifteen years in prison.

Article 355 Violation of the rules for driving or using special vehicles

(1) Violation of the rules for driving or using war, special or other means of transport, if they are due to negligence on the part of the person;
if it has caused serious or moderate damage to health,
sentenced to up to two years in the military correctional unit or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) For the same act that resulted in the death of a person due to negligence,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.
(3) For the act provided for in the first part of this article, for an act which resulted in the death of two or more persons due to negligence,
sentenced to four to ten years in prison.
(In edition of the Law of Turkmenistan of November 9, 2013 - Information of the Mejlis of Turkmenistan, 2013, No. 4, 77Article).

Article 356 Violation of the rules of flights or preparations for them

Violation of flight or training rules or other rules of use of military aircraft
if it has resulted in the death or other serious consequences of negligence,
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.

Article 357 Violation of the rules of navigation

Violations of the rules of navigation or the use of warships could result in carelessness or other serious consequences.
if brought
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.

Article 358 Abuse of a given position or position

(1) Abuse of authority or service authority by a manager or other official;
that it has increased its powers or powers of service, for the inaction of its powers, if these actions are motivated by greed or
if it is done for other personal gain and in the interest of the service, the rights and legitimacy of the military and other citizens
if it has seriously damaged their interests,
remuneration without deprivation or deprivation of the right to work or hold a particular position for up to three years;
is fined between fifty and one hundred and fifty percent of the average monthly salary, or up to two years in the military.
imprisonment or imprisonment for up to two years or imprisonment for up to three years.
(2) For such acts in connection with violence endangering the life or health of a person,
sentenced to five years in prison.
(3) For acts provided for in the first or second part of this Article, which have resulted in the death of a person or other serious consequences,
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.
(4) For acts of warfare provided for in the first, second or third part of this article,
sentenced to five to fifteen years in prison.

Article 359 Indifference to service

(1) As a result of his or her service duties, cold or dishonest treatment by the manager or other officials;
for failing to comply or failing to do so, it is in the interest of the service, the rights of military personnel and other civilians, and
if it has seriously damaged its legitimate interests,
is fined between forty and one hundred of the average monthly wage or two years in the military.
sentenced to up to two years in prison or military detention.
(2) For such acts which have resulted in the death of a person or other serious consequences,
sentenced to two to five years in prison.
(3) For acts of warfare provided for in this Article,
sentenced to three to ten years in prison.

To the Criminal Code of Turkmenistan
APPENDIX

To receive free of charge as per the judgment of the court
list of unrelated property

For a convict who is owned by a private owner or who has a share in his or her public ownership and who is convicted
and the following types of property and things necessary for the people in his care are not subject to free admission:
1. The dwelling, the house or its individual parts, if the convicted person and his family live there permanently.
2. For people whose main occupation is agriculture, it is necessary to meet the needs of household construction and their families.
livestock, as well as fodder for their livestock.
3. Seeds needed for regular sowing of agricultural crops.
4. Household items, utensils, clothes:
a) clothing, footwear, underwear, blankets, used kitchen and dining equipment. This is how it is made of precious materials
and items of artistic value can be obtained free of charge.
b) furniture that is essential for the convicted person and his / her family members;
c) felt, two carpets, two palaces;
d) all items pertaining to children.
5. If the main occupation of the convict is agriculture, it is necessary for the convict and his family until the new harvest.
foodstuffs, in other cases - foodstuffs in the amount up to five of the average monthly wage and
money.
6. Fuel and wood for cooking and heating of the dwelling.
7. What is needed to continue the professional career of the convict or his or her family members (including manuals and books).
8. Vehicles specially designed for the movement of persons with disabilities.

OUR ADDRESS:
Turkmenistan Ashgabat Archabil Avenue, 150
Phone: +993 (12) 39-19-21
Fax: +993 (12) 39-19-71
E-mail: info.minjust@online.tm

© All rights reserved. Ministry of Justice of Turkmenistan 2021

