Page 1

0312 216 50 00

Chairman's Message | English

ALO 198 Data Protection Line Information Advisory

Search Site...

Central

Home page

Corporate

Legislation

Data Controller

Related person

Publications

Contact

Considerations for the Protection of Children's Personal Data
EVENTS

Pleasure

09

''In Ensuring Data Security
Technical and Administrative Measures
Wednesday Seminar...

Pleasure

08

May

26

Protection of Personal Data
Conference Held

''European Union Data Protection
Turkish in the Light of Regulations
On "Cookies in Law"...

Published Date: 23.04.2020

Regarding the Protection of Children's Personal Data
Things to pay attention
As it is known, technology and the internet as an extension of it are widely used in the world and in our country.
use brings with it some risks as well as many benefits. At the beginning of these risks is the awareness of personal data.
As a result of sharing without sharing, there are victims that children may encounter. Harassment, cyberbullying, inappropriate
access to materials and possible negative effects of direct marketing are the main ones.

In particular, the prevalence of the use of new technologies among children, the child's perception level and personal data in terms of age.
not foreseeing the consequences of sharing, not being aware of the risks, not knowing their legal rights and how to use these rights.
Issues such as ignorance and weak family surveillance in digital areas expose children to these risks in the online environment.
renders it vulnerable.

Children use the internet and social media intensively for many of their needs such as education, socialization, entertainment and communication.
to give importance to the protection of personal data of children and to protect them from possible risks.
It will be helpful to protect. Today, when the epidemic is being fought, on the one hand, social distance and
While measures such as isolation and distance education are implemented, on the other hand, the time spent by children in online environments
significant increase is observed. For this reason, parents are responsible for the protection of children's personal data.
More duties and responsibilities fall than ever before.

In this context, first of all, families should increase their own knowledge and awareness about the protection of children's personal data,
Afterwards, they should guide their children in this regard and personal data privacy is a part of their daily conversations.
on compliance with the Law No. 6698 by those who develop products and services for children.
Showing the utmost care is more important than ever.

By our Institution in order to effectively protect the personal data of our children, who are the guarantee of our future.
The brochures prepared and containing practical suggestions are listed below.

Previous

PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION INSTITUTION

Next

CORPORATE

LEGISLATION

Nasuh Akar Mahallesi 1407. Sok. No:4, 06520

Head of Institution

Personal Data Protection Law

Cankaya/Ankara

Board Members

regulations

history

Board Decisions

Mission vision

Notifications

Activity report

commitments

RELATED PERSON

PUBLICATIONS

DATA SPEAKER

Who is the Data Controller?

Who is the Contact Person?

KVK Magazine

Processing of Personal Data

Rights of the Relevant Person

guides

Deletion, Destruction or Anonymization of Personal Data

Videos

bringing in

Other Documents

Considerations When Obtaining Explicit Consent

