Page 1

SECTION I

GENERAL DISPOSITION

Article 1.- Approve the Accountability and Execution Balance
Budget corresponding to fiscal year 2017, with a result:

A) Deficit of $ 58,893,182,000 (fifty-eight thousand eight hundred ninety-three
million one hundred eighty-two thousand Uruguayan pesos) corresponding to the
Budget Execution.

B) Superavitario of $ 11,979,265,000 (eleven thousand nine hundred seventy-nine million
two hundred and sixty-five thousand Uruguayan pesos) for operations
extrabudgetary derived from the application of legal norms.

The amounts referred to above arise from the demonstrative statements and
auxiliaries that accompany this law as annexes and are part of it.

Article 2.- This law will govern as of January 1, 2019, except in
those provisions that expressly establish another effective date.

The credits assigned for salaries and for operating and investment expenses,
are quantified at values ​as of January 1, 2018, and will be adjusted as
provided in articles 68, 69, 70 and 82 of Law No. 15,809, of April 8, 1986, and 4º

Page 2

two

of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010.

SECTION II

OFFICIALS

Article 3.- For the sole purposes of computing the seniority license that regulates
Article 14 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013, will take into account all
the periods in which the official has maintained any type of link with the
Administration, whatever its start date, as long as there has been continuity
between said links and the date of entry as a public official.

Repeal article 10 of Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017.

Article 4.- All State agencies, prior to any hiring or
appointment of persons, they must request the Registry of Links with the State of
National Office of the Civil Service background regarding the existence of dismissals
as a result of administrative summaries and judicial disqualifications
willing to hold public office, as well as evidence of current ties with
other organisms.

Failure to comply with the obligation provided in the preceding paragraph, will configure
administrative offense, subject to sanction.

Page 3

3

Article 5.- Replace Article 73 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 73. (Sanctions) .- Without prejudice to other than the legal norms
established, it may be imposed by reason of offenses committed, the following
sanctions:

- Observation with annotation in the official's personal file.

- Warning (warning) with annotation in the personal file of the
official.

- Suspension for up to six months. Suspension up to
three months will be without pay, or with half salary according to the
severity of the case. The one that exceeds this last term will always be without
enjoy salary.

Any penalty discount will be calculated on permanent items
subject to montepío that make up the salary received by the official in the
time of the offense.

- Dismissal, in which case and provided that in the report of the Legal Advisor
It is advised, unlike that suggested by the summary instructor, a
expulsion sanction, as well as in the event that the hierarch,
departing from the previous rulings, opt for the dismissal of the
official, a new hearing will be granted to the accused for a period of ten days
working hours, prior to the submission of the file to the Commission

Page 4

4

National Civil Service (literal c) article 7 of Law No. 15,757, of 15
July 1985). The file sent to the National Commission of the
Civil Service must have a new legal opinion regarding the hearing
evacuated ".

Article 6.- Replace Article 30 of Law No. 15,809, of April 8, 1986, in
the wording given by Article 4 of Law No. 15,851, of December 24, 1986, by
the next:

"ARTICLE 30.- The" B "Professional Technical ladder comprises the positions and
contracts that grant the status of public official to those who have obtained
any of the following formations:

1) University or non-university tertiary level, with an hourly load
equal to or greater than seven hundred and fifty hours, or a duration not less than
a year and a half, whose titles have ministerial recognition, always
corresponding.

2) That which corresponds, at least, to 50% (fifty percent) of the total
of the credits necessary to obtain a degree in a degree
university ".

Article 7.- Article 12 of Law No. 16.104, of January 23, 1990, be replaced
in the wording given by article 45 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010,
by the following:

Page 5

5

"ARTICLE 12.- Sick leave exceeding sixty days in
a period of twelve months or the ninety days in a period of twenty-four
months, they must be communicated to the head of the executing unit. This will order
request the opinion of your medical services or the Ministry of Public Health in
your case, in order to determine the relevance of holding Meetings
Doctors of the State Health Services Administration, with the
purpose of establishing the physical or mental fitness of the official for the
performance of their usual tasks.

If the interested party does not appear at the second summons made by the Boards
Doctors of the State Health Services Administration, the Power of
Executive will order the retention of their assets up to 50% (fifty percent
hundred).

They are excluded from the terms established in the first paragraph of this article,
absences derived from pregnancy.

When absences do not determine permanent impossibility for the
performance of the functions, may be extended for up to one year, and may, for
founded resolution of the Medical Boards of the Administration of the
Health of the State, to extend said term for up to one more year.

Once said period has expired, the official will be dismissed for the cause of
physical or mental ineptitude, after granting the guarantees of due
process.

In the case that the opinion of the Medical Board of the Administration of the
State Health Services it turns out that the official lost his capacity

Page 6

6

permanently physical or mental for the exercise of their position, the body
to which it belongs must provide a report to the official for presentation to
the Social Security Bank (BPS).

If the BPS ruling determines absolute and permanent disability for all
work, the BPS without further formality will proceed to document the services and verified
more than ten years, will grant you as a monthly advance, the equivalent of
two-thirds of their nominal salary, without its amount being able to
if it is less than the general retirement minimum.

If the dismissal does not occur, the amount of the retained wages will be refunded
anticipated to BPS.

In the event that the official does not access retirement due to total impossibility and
absolute for all work, such circumstance will be communicated by the BPS to the
organism of origin. Upon receipt of said communication, the hierarch of the Subsection will arrange
of a period of sixty calendar days to define if the official can
develop tasks appropriate to their capacity certified by the BPS, in the aforementioned
organism. Prior to reassignment in the same agency, you must
Obtain the express acceptance of the official, for which he will have a
within twenty business days from notification. Expired the term of
sixty calendar days and if the reassignment of the official is not verified within the
body, the hierarch will declare it surplus, not governing in these cases the
provided in Article 21 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010. In
form prior to the declaration of leave, acceptance must be obtained
of the official, for which he will have a period of twenty days
business as of its notification.

Page 7

7

Once the official has been included in the payroll of personnel to be redistributed, the
The procedure will continue in accordance with the provisions of article 22 and following of
Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010, as appropriate.

Once the official of his new destination has been notified, his acceptance must be obtained
express, for which it will have a period of twenty business days from
your notification.

Once the terms established in the referred regulations have expired without having
verified acceptance by any body to which it could be
offered, the official's hierarch will arrange, prior notice, the pertinent procedures
for their removal.

If the tasks that the official can fulfill, either in his own body or
As a consequence of their redistribution, they will imply a change of ladder,
following a report from the National Civil Service Office, it will be included in the
the last occupied grade of the new ladder, maintaining their salary level.

In all cases in which it turns out that the dismissed official does not have
right to receive retirement, the BPS will serve as the only compensation, the
equivalent of as many salaries in activity as the number of years there are
provided services to the Public Administration, without prejudice to compensation
that could correspond in the event that the ineptitude comes from an accident in
the performance of their tasks.

The positions or functions of those officials covered by the subsidy
temporary disability due to partial disability (Article 22 of Law No. 16,713, of 3
September 1995, in the wording given by Article 5 of Law No. 18,395, of

Page 8

8

October 24, 2008) will remain in reserve until it is resolved in
definitively shape their situation. "

Article 8.- The officials who, on the effective date of this law, are
are carrying out permanent contracts of public function, in the
Items 02 to 15 of the National Budget, will occupy budgeted positions of the
last grade of the ladder and corresponding series, in the respective executing unit.

In the event that the remuneration of the budget charge is less than the
corresponding to the contracted function, the difference will be kept as compensation
temporary staff to be absorbed with future promotions. The eventual expenses
resulting from this provision will be taken care of against the credits of the
Items, not being able to generate budgetary or cash cost.

The provisions of this article will not apply to the following
agencies: Item 04 "Ministry of the Interior", executing unit 013 "General Directorate of
Casinos "of Inciso 05" Ministry of Economy and Finance ", executing unit 016
"Official Service of Diffusion, Representations and Shows" (SODRE) of Section 11
"Ministry of Education and Culture", only, as for the members of the
stable bodies.

Article 9.- Replace Article 15 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013,
with the modification introduced by Article 7 of Law No. 19,535, of November 25
of 2017 by the following:

"ARTICLE 15. (Special licenses) .- Officials will also have
right to the following licenses:

Page 9

9

For sickness. As determined by the Medical Certification Service
correspondent. When sick leave exceeds sixty days in
a period of twelve months or the ninety days in a period of twenty-four
months, the hierarch, prior report of his medical service or the Administration of
the State Health Services, will decide on the relevance of carrying out
of a Medical Board, in order to establish the physical or mental fitness of the official
for the performance of their usual tasks, the law being applicable
specific in the matter.

By study. Up to a maximum of twenty business days per year, which may
be enjoyed in a fractional way, by those officials who study in
institutes of basic secondary education, upper secondary education, education
higher professional technician, university education, normal institute and other
analogous public or private nature, authorized by the Ministry of Education and
Culture or by the National Public Education Administration.

For the purposes of its usufruct, it will be necessary to accredit the exam taken and have
passed at least two subjects in the previous calendar year.

The aforementioned license will be reduced to a maximum of ten business days, when the
official has only approved two subjects in two immediate calendar years
preceding the date of the request.

These requirements will not apply in cases where the official is
studying the first year of your studies or starting a new career.

Also entitled to this license, professional officials who
pursue undergraduate, postgraduate, master's and doctorate studies, as well as
effects of performing tasks of a mandatory nature for the completion of their

Page 10

10

study programs, such as thesis presentations, monographs and portfolios
end.

By maternity. Every pregnant public official shall have the right through
presentation of a medical certificate indicating the presumed date of the
childbirth, to maternity leave. The duration of this license will be thirteen
weeks. For these purposes, the pregnant official must cease all work
one week before delivery and you will not be able to restart it for up to twelve weeks
after it. The pregnant official will be able to advance the start of her
leave, up to six weeks before the presumed date of delivery. When the
delivery occurs after the presumed date, the leave taken previously
will be prolonged until the date of delivery and the duration of rest
Mandatory puerperal should not be reduced. In case of illness that is
As a consequence of the pregnancy, a supplementary prenatal rest may be set.
In case of illness that is a consequence of childbirth, the official will have
right to an extension of the puerperal rest, the duration of which will be fixed by
the respective medical services.

In case of multiple births, preterm or with a disability, the
maternity leave will be eighteen weeks.

For paternity, ten business days.

In the case of premature births less than thirty-two weeks old,
pregnancy and requiring hospitalization, the father and mother, biological or adoptive,
They will be entitled to leave for the duration of said hospitalization with a maximum of
sixty days. At the end of this license, the usufruct of the license will begin for
maternity or paternity. In the case of maternity leave, it will correspond
the usufruct of eighteen weeks of license.

Page 11

eleven

By adoption, of six continuous weeks, which may be applicable as of the
the delivery of the minor has been made effective. When the two adoptive parents
are beneficiaries of this license, only one may enjoy it, and at the
remaining will correspond ten business days.

By donating blood, organs and tissues. By donating blood, the
An official shall have the right not to attend his work on the day of the donation.

In the case of organ and tissue donation, the number of days will be the one that
deemed necessary by the doctors of the National Institute of Donation and Transplantation of
Cells, Tissues and Organs, for the total recovery of the donor.

For the performance of genito-mammary exams, the officials will have
right to one day of leave in order to facilitate their attendance to be carried out
Pap tests or breast x-rays.

For treatments on assisted human reproduction within the framework of the Law
Nº 19,167, of November 22, 2013. The official will make usufruct of this
license provided that it is accredited through medical certification.

Likewise, officials will be entitled to one day of leave for the purposes of
have prostate specific antigen (PSA) tests or ultrasound or
urological examination.

In all cases, the respective proof must be presented.

Page 12

12

Due to mourning, ten days in a row due to the death of parents, children, spouses,
adoptive children, adoptive parents and common-law partners; four days in case of
siblings, and two days for grandparents, grandchildren, parents, children or in-laws,
stepparents or stepchildren, in all cases it must be duly justified.

By marriage or by judicially recognized free union, of fifteen days
corridos from the act of celebration or issuance of sentence.

For retirement, up to five business days, for the purposes of carrying out the procedure
correspondent.

For gender violence. In cases of non-attendance due to situations
of gender violence duly accredited.

For domestic violence. In cases of non-attendance due to situations
of domestic violence duly accredited, the respective hierarch will have
that the corresponding discounts are not made effective.

By integration of Vote Receiving Commissions organized by the Court
Electoral, in case of exercising their functions, they will have a holiday the day after
the election and five days of leave. Officials designated as alternates
who appear on the day of the election at the location assigned at hour 7, will have
right to two days of leave if they do not replace the holders. Non-attendance at
training courses will lose the right to use the established license.

Without pay. The hierarch may justifiably grant to the
career civil servants, unpaid leave of up to one year.

Page 13

13

Once it has been completed, it cannot be requested again until after five
years of the expiration of that one.

The one-year limit will not apply to:

A) Officials whose spouses or common-law partners - also officials
public - are destined to fulfill services abroad for a period
longer than one year.

B) Officials who go on to provide services in agencies
of which the Republic is a part, when they are
interest of the Administration and for a period that may not exceed the
five years.

C) Officials with teaching positions designated or elected to
hold teaching positions in university government.

D) Officials who must reside abroad, for compliance with
postgraduate, master, doctorate courses, conducting research
on topics related to their profession or specialization and that are of
interest for the Agency for a term that may not exceed 4 (four)
years. Upon expiration of the same, they must return to fulfill tasks in the
Agency for a minimum period of one year. Failure to comply with said
extreme will be considered functional omission.

Page 14

14

The hierarch may grant in specific duly founded cases, to the
hired officials, leave without pay for up to six months. "

Article 10.- The General Accounting Office of the Nation will enable the necessary credit to
finance the salary differences generated by the subrogations arranged under the protection
Article 27 of Law No. 16,320, of November 1, 1992, and Articles 68 and 69
of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013, exclusively in the case of the first
subrogation that is available and for a maximum period of eighteen months. The dispensing
resulting from the successive extension or extensions, whether provided with the same or with
another person, will be financed from the credits of the organization to which the
position or surrogate function.

Article 11.- The first paragraph of Article 27 of Law No. 18,172 of 31
August 2007, by the following:

"ARTICLE 27.- Create a single annual item for the concept of" End Basket
of Year ", which will be governed by the provisions of Article 167 of Law No. 16,713, of
September 3, 1995, amending and concordant, and that in this case
will pay by means of an account or electronic money instrument,
before December 24 of each year, the personnel belonging to the
levels A, B, C, D, E, F, J, K, L, R and S of Items 02 to 15 of the Budget
National, according to the amounts detailed below:

- 2 BPC (two Bases of Benefits and Contributions) for those who have
received less than the amount equivalent to 5 BPC (five Bases of
Benefits and Contributions) in the total bonus corresponding to the year
immediately preceding.

Page 15

fifteen

- 1 BPC (a Base of Benefits and Contributions) for those who have
received between 5 BPC (five Bases of Benefits and Contributions) and 10
BPC (ten Bases of Benefits and Contributions) in the total bonus
corresponding to the immediately preceding year.

- 1/2 BPC (mean Base of Benefits and Contributions) for those who
have received between 10 BPC (ten Benefit Bases and
Contributions) and 20 BPC (twenty Bases of Benefits and Contributions)
in the total bonus corresponding to the immediately preceding year.

The Ministry of Economy and Finance may authorize payment through other
mechanisms, in an exceptional and duly justified manner, to whom
are covered by the exception provided for in article 21 of the Law
Nº 19,210, of April 29, 2014, in the wording given by Article 4 of the
Law No. 19,478, of January 5, 2017 ".

This provision shall enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

SECTION III

FINANCIAL ORDER

Article 12.- Substitute literal G) of numeral 1) of article 72 of the Law
Nº 18,719, of December 27, 2010, by the following:

Page 16

16

"G) The surpluses in the budgetary allocations destined to
leases of real estate, may be transferred to expenses of
operation with a prior and favorable report from the Ministry of Economy and
Finance".

This provision shall enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 13.- Add to literals D) and H) of numeral 1) of Article 72 of the Law
No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010, the following subsection:

"The Ministry of Economy and Finance is empowered to exempt from the previous report and
favorable to those transpositions that do not generate contingencies ".

Article 14.- The one-time items established for projects of
operation and investment, which have not registered execution in at least two
continuous exercises will expire.

The Ministry of Economy and Finance may exempt from the established expiration
in the preceding subsection when the subsection reliably establishes the existence of
situations of ongoing litigation or other well-founded reasons that have prevented its
execution.

Repeal article 598 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10, 1987.

Page 17

17

Article 15.- Replace Article 82 of Law No. 18,362, of October 6, 2008,
in the wording given by articles 14 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4, 2011,
25 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013, and 206 of Law No. 19,355, of October 19,
December 2015 (article 151 of TOCAF 2012), by the following:

"ARTICLE 82.- The Purchasing Agency will have the following tasks:

A) Advise the Executive Power as necessary in the preparation and
monitoring of public procurement policies, in consideration of the
bills that refer totally or partially to said matter and, in
general, in any process of updating the regulations in force in the
your area of ​competence.

B) Advise the agencies dependent on the Executive Power in matters of
state purchases and contracting and, through agreements, to the rest
autonomous public bodies.

C) Develop and maintain the Unique Registry of State Suppliers at the
service of state public administrations and companies
suppliers of the same.

D) Develop and apply the common catalog of appropriate goods and services
for the exchange of information between public bodies.

Page 18

18

E) Carry out the widest dissemination, preparation of materials and training
in the regulations relating to government contracting and the best
applicable practices, advocating the application of criteria and
simple and uniform procedures that facilitate the task of buyers and
suppliers.

F) Develop and maintain the state purchasing and contracting website
where the State Public Administrations publish the information
referred to the contracting of works, goods and services, in such a way that
constitutes a transparency tool made available to the
citizenship.

G) Issue technical standards and recommendations on matters of its
competition, as well as quality standards for products and services
coordinating with standardization and certification bodies and with the
National Institute of Quality.

H) Advise the State Public Administrations to improve their management
purchasing, propose procedure manuals, suggest actions that
contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of the processes.

I) Advise suppliers on best practices and procedures and
tools applicable in the contracting processes.

J) Determine the strategic guidelines of the deconcentrated body of the
Executive Branch, Centralized Procurement Unit that operates in the
Item 05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance", without prejudice to its
technical autonomy.

Page 19

19

K) Impose the sanctions of: warning, financial fine, execution of
guarantee of maintenance of the offer or of faithful fulfillment of the contract and
suspension, in cases substantiated by the Centralized Unit for
Acquisitions as a result of complaints for non-compliance that derive from
the hiring processes convened by it.

L) Carry out the evaluation, follow-up and monitoring of the national
public procurement, controlling its performance with respect to the
applicable legal and technical standards, being able to require its actors all
type of information for such purposes.

M) As a result of the evaluation or monitoring procedures, ACCE
You will be able to notice the verification of performance deviations
expected by the different actors of the purchasing system
public authorities, being able to inform the Executive Power, as well as the
competent bodies, recommending the actions to be followed.

N) Generate mechanisms that provide information to the citizen, on the
hiring of the State Public Administrations, in such a way
updated and easily accessible, as well as in an open format, promoting the
transparency of the system and the generation of trust in it.

O) Promote the use of information and knowledge technologies,
following the digital government guidelines, to simplify the
procedures, facilitate the work of buyers and suppliers and obtain
information on their performance, as tools for
improvement of the management and transparency of the purchasing system and
public sector contracting.

Page 20

twenty

The Purchasing Agency may communicate directly with all
State Public Administrations, public bodies and the
private entities for the fulfillment of their duties ".

Article 16.- Article 451 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10,
1987, with the wording given by article 15 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4,
2011, (article 2 of the TOCAF) by the following:

"ARTICLE 451.- It is the subject of this Law on Accounting and
Financial Administration the facts, acts or operations from which they derive
transformations or variations in the Public Treasury. They are included in
the same, as Organisms of Administration-Financial Patrimonial,
without prejudice to the attributions and powers, rights and obligations that
assign the Constitution of the Republic and the laws:

- The Powers of the State.

- The Court of Accounts.

- The Electoral Court.

- The Contentious Administrative Court.

Page 21

twenty-one

- The Departmental Governments.

- The Autonomous Entities and Decentralized Services.

- In general, all State Public Administrations.

For industrial or commercial entities of the State, the provisions
contained in this Ordered Text will be applicable insofar as its laws
organic do not expressly foresee special regimes. However,
general principles of law as well as the special principles provided for in the
Article 149 of this Ordered Text, will be applicable without exception in
all hiring of any State Public Administration ".

Article 17.- Add to article 486 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10,
1987, modifying and concordant, the following subsection:

"Likewise, publication on the website of the Purchasing Agency is mandatory.
and State Contracting of the procedures provided in this present
article, in accordance with the provisions of article 31 of Law No. 18,834, of
November 4, 2011, with the modifications introduced by Article 29 of
Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, and Article 14 of Law No. 19,535,
of September 25, 2017 (Article 50 of the TOCAF) ".

Article 18.- Article 489 of Law No. 15,903 of November 10,
1987, in the wording given by article 15 of Law No. 19,438, of October 14,
2016, (article 48 of the TOCAF), by the following:

Page 22

22

"ARTICLE 489.- The single sheet of bases and general conditions will be
complemented with a list of bases and particular conditions for each
hiring.

Said statement must contain at least:

A) The description of the object.

B) The special or technical conditions required.

C) The objective evaluation criteria, according to one of the following
systems:

1) Determination of the factor (s) (quantitative and / or qualitative), as well
as the weighting of each of them, in order to determine the
rating assigned to each offer.

2) Requirement of minimum requirements, and subsequent employment, regarding
those who comply with them, the price factor exclusively or
another factor of a quantitative nature.

Page 23

2. 3

D) The type (s) of currency in which it must be traded, the procedure for
conversion into a single currency for comparison of offers and
when the conversion will take place.

E) The classes and amount of the guarantees, if applicable.

F) The mode of provision of the object of the contract.

G) Whether or not tax or other benefits are granted and the
determination of them.

H) Any other specification that helps to ensure the necessary clarity
for potential bidders.

The intervening authorizing officer will determine the price of the particular document or
have no cost.

The particular specification may establish that the award can be divided
in a certain way between two or more bidders.

When the particular specification does not precisely determine the quantity to be
buy, bidders may propose different prices for quantities
different units to be awarded.

Page 24

24

In no case, the particular document may require the bidders requirements
that are not directly linked to the consideration of the object of the
contracting or the evaluation of the offer, unless there are
established in any legal provision that expressly requires it.

The cargo is reserved only to the bidder who is the successful bidder.
administrative to demonstrate to be in formal conditions to contract, without
prejudice to criminal, civil or administrative responsibilities that
could correspond.

In the event that the particular specification requires documentation that can be
access through the Single Registry of State Suppliers, the
obligation shall be deemed to have been fulfilled.

The foregoing is without prejudice to the provisions
on the content of the specifications referred to in article 8 of the Law
No. 16,134, of September 24, 1990, and the provisions
contractual agreements on the comparison of offers contained in
loan with international organizations of which the Republic forms
part".

Article 19.- Article 523 of Law No. 15.903, of November 10,
1987, in the wording given by article 28 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015 (article 76 of the TOCAF), by the following:

"ARTICLE 523.- The State Purchasing and Contracting Agency (ACCE)
will be responsible for the operation of the Single Registry of Suppliers of the

Page 25

25

State (RUPE). Notwithstanding this, the other organizations may take their
own records.

Those interested in contracting with the State must register with the RUPE and the
State Public Administrations may not contract with suppliers not
inscribed in it. The regulations issued by the Executive Power may exempt
of the registration obligation those situations related to the hiring of
reduced amount, auctions, emergencies, non-domiciled foreign contractors
in the country, as well as authorizing the ACCE, to exempt from this obligation other
special situations that justify it.

Once the offers have been opened, the contracting body will be in charge of
the validation and approval of the registration in the registry of those interested
that are in the process of registering or updating information. The
RUPE will incorporate the information on sanctions to suppliers that resolve
the State Public Administrations once they are firm, the
that will be considered as antecedents of the same for future
hiring carried out. Such consideration should be made at the
moment of evaluation of the offers, taking into account, among others
aspects, the type of sanction, as well as the time elapsed since its imposition,
as provided by the regulations.

The facts that are considered relevant referring to the execution of contracts
They will be communicated to the RUPE by the officials authorized for that purpose,
without adding any subjective assessment, according to what the
regulation.

Each provider will have the right to know the information that the RUPE has
on it, either directly or electronically in real time, without
more paperwork than identification.

Page 26

26

In the case of suspension or elimination resolved by an Administration
State Public, the State Purchasing and Contracting Agency (ACCE)
may extend it to all contracting agencies, prior to the
providers involved.

All public bodies must verify with the RUPE the registration and
information of the bidders in their contracting processes, in the way that
establish regulations. They will be unenforceable to all Administration
Public State contracting information on representatives and owners does not
communicated to the RUPE, even when compliance with the
Provisions of Law No. 16,871, of September 28, 1997, amending and
concordant.

Bidders registered in the RUPE will have the right not to present certificates
or proof of your registration in the same, or the information about
They are valid and current, in this and that it was presented by the providers
or incorporated through electronic transfer of other public records. The
certification of compliance with the current legal obligations of bidders or
Awardees will be obtained in the RUPE through the exchange of information
by electronic means and will be valid before all public bodies ".

Article 20.- Article 404 of Law Nº 17.296, of February 21,
2001, in the wording given by article 294 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24,
2013, by the following:

"ARTICLE 404.- It is exempted from the prior control of the Ministry of Economy and
Finances for direct contracting covered by the provisions of the

Page 27

27

numeral 9) of literal C) of article 33 of the Ordered Text of Accounting and
State Financial Administration (TOCAF), in the following cases:

I) When the Ministry of Housing, Land Management and Environment
must give immediate response in any of the following situations:

A) Defects or construction defects detected in homes delivered by
the aforementioned Secretary of State and whose responsibility is
chargeable.

B) Repair of sanitation and drinking water systems in those
housing complexes where the
Ministry.

C) Infrastructure works of those housing complexes not
contemplated in Decree No. 51/995, of February 1, 1995.

D) Damage caused by emergency situations, such as floods,
tornadoes and others.

E) When an immediate and provisional response must be given to the families
or people at risk of life due to the uninhabitability of the home,
violence or abuse.

In the case provided for in literal A) the Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and the Environment must, simultaneously

Page 28

28

direct contracting, carry out administrative investigations and
corresponding liability actions.

II) Purchases made by the Ministry of Public Health, in compliance with
jurisdictional decisions, medications or therapeutic devices not
included in the Therapeutic Drug Formulary or the programs
comprehensive benefits enshrined in article 45 of Law No. 18,211, of 5
December 2007.

Without prejudice to the exoneration of prior control, the Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and Environment and the Ministry of Public Health
must inform the Ministry of Economy and Finance of all
contracts that are carried out under this provision, for the purposes of
that, without prior character, the points provided for in the subsection whose
exoneration is enabled ".

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 21.- Add to literal C) of article 33 of the Ordered Text of
State Accounting and Financial Administration (TOCAF), the following numeral:

"38) Enable the Ministry of Housing, Territorial and Environment
Environment to contract services directly, whatever their
modality, with non-profit professional trade associations ".

Article 22.- Add to literal C) of article 33 of the Ordered Text of the

Page 29

29

State Accounting and Financial Administration (TOCAF), the following numeral:

"39) The contracting of Derivative Financial Instruments (DFI) in order to
to carry out financial and market risk hedging operations, for
part of the Central Administration and the Bodies of Article 221 of
the Constitution of the Republic, in accordance with the regulations that
dictates the Executive Power.

For the purposes of contracting under this exception, and in relation to the
Bodies of article 221 of the Constitution of the Republic, will be of
application of the provisions of article 267 of Law No. 18,834, of 4
November 2011, in the wording given by article 337 of the Law
Nº 18,996, of November 7, 2012 and as provided by article 738
of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015.

When the contracting party is the Central Administration, the
authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance ".

Article 23.- Add to literal C) of article 33 of the Ordered Text of the
State Accounting and Financial Administration (TOCAF), the following numeral:

"40) Suppliers who participate in contracting for the provision of
health services, within the framework of the provisions of Law No. 18,546, of 2
September 2009, will be exempted from the registration requirement in the
Single Registry of State Suppliers ".

Article 24.- Substitute numeral 36 of literal C) of article 33 of the Text

Page 30

30

Ordered of Accounting and Financial Administration of the State (TOCAF), by the
following:

"36) The acquisition of fresh food and provisions by the Executive Power
and the organizations included in article 220 of the Constitution of the
Republic, whose production or supply is in charge of cooperatives of
producers and that it is carried out through agreements in which the
Departmental Governments and in order to supply their
dependencies ".

Article 25.- Add to Article 503 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10,
1987, in the wording given by article 36 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4,
2011 (article 64 of the TOCAF), the following subsection:

"Those organizations authorized under article 5 of the Law
No. 19,292, of December 16, 2014, who participate in procedures of
contract, in no case must they present a guarantee of maintenance of
offer or performance of contract. In case of non-compliance, it will be sanctioned
in the manner established above ".

Article 26.- Modifications made in this law to provisions of the Text
Ordered of the Accounting and Financial Administration of the State (TOCAF)
they understand made to the legal norms that gave rise to them.

Article 27.- Replace Article 104 of Law No. 13,835, of January 7, 1970,
by the following:

Page 31

31

"ARTICLE 104.- Judicial deposits, when the depositary is a
public institution, whose respective accounts had no movement in
a period of ten years, they will be considered paralyzed and will be discharged to income
General.

The presumption established in the previous paragraph will be without effect and will not be
will make the version to General Income, when, before the expiration of the term,
the Court whose order the deposit is, notify the institution
depository that the cars related to the deposit are in process or
the interested party provides a certification issued by the Court in the
same sense.

The return of the funds transferred in compliance with the first paragraph of
this article may be requested by the competent court or by whoever has
right, within ten years of its version to General Income, without
no prescription or expiration period can oppose said request ".

Repeal article 106 of Law No. 13,835, of January 7, 1970.

Article 28.- Substitute numeral 18) of literal C) of article 33 of the Text
Ordered of the Accounting and Financial Administration of the State (TOCAF), by the
following:

"18) To acquire, execute, repair goods or contract services for the
scientific research by the University of the Republic or the
Technological University, up to an annual amount of US $ 10,000,000 (ten
million United States dollars) ".

Page 32

32

SECTION IV

SECTIONS OF THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION

SECTION 02

PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC

Article 29.- Believe in Section 02 "Presidency of the Republic", unit
executor 001 "Presidency of the Republic and Dependent Units", program 481
"Government Policy", the positions of "National Secretary of Science and Technology" and
"National Secretary of Environment, Water and Climate Change", in a private capacity
confidence.

Be included in literal B) of article 35 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, to the positions created in the first paragraph.

The provisions of this article will be financed with credit from the object of the
expense 099.001 "Projected Item", not being able to generate budgetary cost. The
General Accounting Office of the Nation will carry out the necessary transpositions for the purposes of
compliance with this standard.

Page 33

33

Article 30.- Reassign in Section 02 "Presidency of the Republic", unit
executor 001 "Presidency of the Republic and Dependent Units", program 481
"Government Policy", Financing 1.1 "General Income", of the object of expenditure 099.001
"Projected Item", for the purpose of expenditure 042.510 "Special compensation for functions
special ", an item of $ 6,000,000 (six million Uruguayan pesos), including
Christmas bonus and legal charges, in order to compensate officials who
perform tasks other than their position while they are performing them.

Article 31.- Substitute Article 20 of Law No. 19,574, of December 20,
2017, by the following:

"ARTICLE 20. (Politically exposed persons) .- It is understood by persons
politically exposed to those who perform or have served in the
last five years important public functions in the country or abroad,
such as: heads of State or Government, senior politicians, civil servants
government, judicial, or high-ranking military, representatives and
Senators of the Legislative Power, prominent leaders of political parties,
directors and senior executives of state-owned companies and other public entities.

It is also understood as people politically exposed to those
people who perform or have performed in the last five years a
hierarchical function in an international organization, such as: members of the high
management, directors, deputy directors, board members or functions
equivalents ".

Article 32.- Believe in Section 02 "Presidency of the Republic", unit
executor 007 "National Institute of Statistics" the following positions:

Page 34

3. 4

Quantity

Denomination

Serie

Grade Level

3

Administrative VI

Administrative

C

7

1

Administrative III

Administrative

C

10

two

Specialist I

Computing

D

12

3

Specialist III

Computing

D

10

Delete the following vacant positions in the same executing unit:

Quantity

Denomination

Serie

Grade Level

two

Technician VII

Administrative

B

7

1

Officer I

Trades

AND

8

1

Officer IV

Driver

AND

5

two

Technician VI

Computing

B

8

1

Specialist V

Computing

D

8

4

Technician XI

Computing

B

3

The excess credit will be transferred to the object of expenditure 092,000 "Global items to
to distribute".

Article 33.- Create in Section 02 "Presidency of the Republic", unit
executor 007 "National Institute of Statistics", program 420 "Official Information and
Documents of Public Interest ", a compensation for special tasks, for tasks of
greater responsibility or tasks in variable hours, for up to a maximum of $ 7,000,000
(seven million Uruguayan pesos) per year including bonus and legal charges, which
will be financed with transpositions from the object of expenditure 095.005 "Fund for
finance transitory and driving functions ", after a favorable report from the Commission
of Remuneration and Occupational Analysis.

Page 35

35

The Executive Power will regulate this provision.
Article 34.- The Postal Operators, in their capacity as agents of perception of the
Financing Rate of the Universal Postal Service must discriminate the amount of the
rate on your billing.
Article 35.-Article 33 of Law No. 19,009, of November 22,
2012, by the following:
"ARTICLE 33. (Sanctions) .- In the event of violations, prior to the
pertinent administrative procedures, the Regulatory Unit of Services of
Communications (URSEC) will apply the sanction determined by the regulations, the
which will graduate according to the nature of the proven facts and
background, according to the following:

A) Verbal observation with mere evidence in the minutes.

B) Written warning.

C) Fine between 5,000 IU (five thousand indexed units) and 500,000 IU
(five hundred thousand indexed units).

D) Suspension of activities with the closure of the commercial premises, between one
five continuous days, with the safeguard of not interrupting the course of
mailings.

E) Revocation of the license.

Page 36

36

F) Confiscation of the elements used to commit the infringement of
provision of postal services without the postal license
corresponding, or of the goods detected in violation, including the
vehicles and machinery, a penalty that may be applied exclusively
or accessory to the others provided.

The confiscated items, after compliance with the guarantees of due
procedure, will become part of URSEC's inventory of assets, provided that
were useful for the fulfillment of their duties. Not to be used
For these purposes, they will be auctioned in application of article 529 of the Law
No. 15.903, of November 10, 1987, in the wording given by Article 653
of Law No. 16,170, of December 28, 1990 (article 83 of TOCAF 2012).

Firm resolutions of the URSEC imposing sanctions of a character
pecuniary to the offending postal service providers, will constitute title
executive in the terms provided by articles 91 and following of the Code
Tax".

Article 36.- Article 76 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, by the following:
"ARTICLE 76.- Public entities must simplify their procedures,
following the electronic government guidelines, adopting the procedure
as simple as possible for the interested party and requiring only compliance
of the requirements and stages that are essential to obtain the purpose
pursued.

In accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph and in compliance with the
provided by articles 157 to 160 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27,
2010, public entities should not request certificates, records,
testimonials or other documentation of a similar nature issued by another entity

Page 37

37

public, when the information contained in said
documents, through computer systems provided by the entities
competent.

Public entities must publish on the Uruguayan State Portal each
one of the procedures they offer, with the precise indication of all the requirements
that the interested party must meet for its realization, the total cost that must
pay, maximum duration of the procedure and the dependency where it must
perform the same.

They will be responsible for periodically reviewing the published information,
displaying the date of the last revision. Not being able to demand the interested party
compliance with additional requirements to those provided in the aforementioned publication ".

Article 37.- The processing of personal data will be subject to Law No. 18,331,
of August 11, 2008 and its amendments and concordant, when carried out by a
responsible or in charge of treatment established in Uruguayan territory, place where
carries out its activity.
In the event that it is not established in that territory, said law will govern:
A) If the processing activities are related to the supply of goods or
services aimed at inhabitants of the Republic or with the analysis of their
behaviour.

B) If provided by rules of public international law or a contract.

C) If the treatment uses means located in the country. Except the cases
in which the means are used exclusively for transit purposes, provided that the

Page 38

38

responsible for the treatment designate a representative, domiciled in the territory
national, before the Regulatory and Control Unit of Personal Data, in order to
comply with the obligations provided by Law No. 18,331, of August 11,
2008.

Article 38.- When the person in charge or in charge of a database or
treatment, become aware of the occurrence of the security breach, you must
inform immediately and in detail of this and of the measures adopted, to the
owners of the data and to the Regulatory and Control Unit of Personal Data, which
coordinate the corresponding course of action, with the National Center for Response to
Computer Security Incidents of Uruguay (CERTuy).
The regulations will determine the content of the information corresponding to the
security breach.
Article 39.- Replace Article 12 of Law No. 18,331, of August 11, 2008,
by the following:
"ARTICLE 12. (Principle of responsibility) .- The person responsible for the database
data or treatment and the person in charge, where appropriate, will be responsible for the
violation of the provisions of this law.

In the exercise of proactive responsibility, they must adopt the measures
appropriate technical and organizational: privacy by design, privacy by
defect, data protection impact assessment, among others, in order to
guarantee an adequate treatment of personal data and demonstrate its
effective implementation.

The regulations will determine the corresponding measures according to the types of
data, treatments and responsible parties, as well as the opportunity for their review and
upgrade".

Page 39

39

Article 40.- Public entities, state or non-state, private entities totally or
partially state-owned, as well as private entities that process data
as main business and those that treat large volumes
The data protection officer must designate a data protection officer.

Its main functions will be:

A) Advise on the formulation, design and application of policies for the protection of
personal information.

B) Supervise compliance with the regulations on said protection in your entity.

C) Propose all the measures that it deems pertinent to adapt to the
regulations and international standards on data protection
personal.

D) Act as a link between your entity and the Data Regulatory and Control Unit
Personal.

The delegate must possess the necessary conditions for the correct performance
of its functions and will act with technical autonomy.

Article 41.- The Executive Power, through the Office of Planning and
Budget, at the time of each Accountability and Execution Balance
Budgetary, will send an annual report of the Ministerial Cabinet of Transformation

Page 40

40

Productive and Competitiveness on actions carried out and planned in relation to the
impact of new business models and automation on employment.

Said report will take as input the preparation and updating of a Matrix of
Risks and Opportunities of Labor Positions, covering all public sectors
and private companies of a productive nature (agriculture, industry, commerce and services), identifying the
jobs that would be extinguished and jobs that would be created to
five-year terms.

SECTION 03

MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE

Article 42.- Assign in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretary of State", program 300 "Defense
Nacional ", the sum of $ 230,000,000 (two hundred and thirty million Uruguayan pesos),
charged to Financing 1.1 "General Income", destined to the financing of a
salary increase for Combatant and Non-Combatant Junior Personnel of the
rank K "Military Personnel" and for civilians equated to a military rank, in the
degrees and their equivalents that are detailed:

Fighter
Degrees and their equivalents

Increase $

SOM / Subof. Title / Airman Supervisor

1,050

Page 41

41

Fighter
Degrees and their equivalents

Increase $

Sgt. 1st. / SOf. 1st. / Airman Instructor

900

Sergeant / SOf. 2nd. / Chief Airman

760

Cape 1st. / Airman 1st.

720

Cape 2nd. / Airman 2nd.

630

Soldier 1st. / Sailor 1st. / Airman 3rd.

615

Non-combatant
Degrees and their equivalents

Increase $

SOM / SubOf. Title / Airman Supervisor

910

Sgt. 1st. / SOf. 1st. / Airman Instructor

800

Sergeant / SOf. 2nd. / Chief Airman

690

Cape 1st. / Airman 1st.

650

Cape 2nd. / Airman 2nd.

600

Soldier 1st. / Sailor 1st. / Airman 3rd.

590

For the purposes of applying the category of combatant and non-combatant,
will follow the criteria determined by article 84 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4
from 2011.

The item authorized in this article will receive the salary increases and adjustments
determined for public officials of the Central Administration and will not be
used to calculate any other remuneration that is set based on percentages.

Page 42

42

The salary increase provided in the first paragraph of this article, includes
the two hundred counts of Sailors of 1st. created for the 460 program "Prevention and
repression of crime ", of the executing unit 018" General Command of the Navy ", by the
Article 55 of this law.

The subsection will communicate to the General Accounting Office of the Nation the distribution of the credit
incrementally between executing units, programs and objects of expenditure that
correspond.

The Ministry of National Defense shall, in order to finance this regulation,
decrease budget credits, in Financing 1.1 "General Income", in a
amount of $ 230,000,000 (two hundred and thirty million Uruguayan pesos), being able
reduce operating expenses by up to $ 100,000,000 (one hundred million pesos
Uruguayans), and must be the reduced remaining amount of the credit assigned in group 0
"Personal services".

The reduction provided in the preceding paragraph must be carried out before the 31st of
May 2019 in an amount of $ 150,000,000 (one hundred and fifty million pesos
Uruguayans), and the balance before December 31, 2019, having to count in all
cases with a prior and favorable report from the National Civil Service Office and the
Ministry of Economy and Finance.

Upon expiration of the terms established in the foregoing, the Ministry of
Economy and Finance to suppress in the first instance, budget credits that are not
make up the endowment of the positions and in the second instance, the vacancies of the degrees
inferiors of each executing unit with their respective credits, until reaching the amount
total to abate.

Of the total credit to be reduced, an amount of $ 70,000,000 (seventy million

Page 43

43

Uruguayan pesos), will be computed for the purposes of compliance with the provisions of the
Article 149 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, which on this occasion
will include executing unit 033 "National Directorate of Health of the Forces
Armed ".

Article 43.- It is established with an interpretative character that the payment of the compensation
provided for in Article 84 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4, 2011, will be paid
discriminated between "combatant" and "non-combatant" personnel.

For the purposes of the payment provided therein, the following are considered combatant personnel:

A) In executing unit 003 "Defense Staff": Junior Personnel and
Superior of the subscale "DIE" and "ESMADE".

B) In executing unit 004 "General Command of the Army": Corps Officers
Command, Service Corps Officers, Support echelon, Sub-echelon
Services and Combat and Junior Personnel.

C) In executing unit 018 "General Command of the Navy": Officers of
General Corps (CG), Corps of Engineers, Machines and Electricity (CIME),
Administration and Supply Corps (CAA) and Prefectural Corps; Y
Junior Personnel.

D) In ​executing unit 023 "General Command of the Air Force": Officers of
Air Corps, Land Security Corps and Technical Corps, Ranks:
Administration and Supply, Maintenance, Communication and Electronics,
Meteorology and Aerospace Health; and Junior Personnel.

Page 44

44

Likewise, Combatant Personnel are Cadets and Aspirants of the
General Commands of the Army, Navy and Air Force.

The qualification will be applied to the rest of the personnel of the Ministry of National Defense
of non-combatant personnel.

Article 44.- Authorize the Executive Power, Item 03 "Ministry of Defense
National ", to be hired on a term basis, under the lease of services, to persons
physical or legal that have specialties and technical skills in specific areas
determined by the regulations to be issued.

The service lease contract will be formalized in writing; may remember
for a maximum term of one year, extendable for identical periods; will be paid through
a price in money, adjusting as pertinent to the norms of the Ordered Text of
Accounting and Financial Administration (TOCAF).

Individuals hired under the regime provided for in this article in
in no case will they acquire the quality of a public official. In case they have the
quality of military retiree, will continue to receive the retirement asset served by the
Retirement and Pension Service of the Armed Forces, not modifying the rights
that due to retirement status they hold in advance of the respective contract.

Only those who have acquired the quality can be hired under this regime
of withdrawal due to having constituted a cause for compulsory withdrawal.

The Ministry of National Defense may not celebrate under this regime more than
eighty contracts simultaneously, up to a maximum of $ 26,000,000 (twenty-six
million Uruguayan pesos), an amount that will be adjusted annually in January by

Page 45

Four. Five

the variation of the Consumer Price Index (CPI), being able to allocate for that purpose
budgetary credits assigned to operating expenses of the subsection.

The maximum amount that may be paid in each contract for fees,
it will be 13 BPC (thirteen Bases of Benefits and Contributions) per month.

In order to complement the financing provided in the previous paragraph,
Reassign in Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 004
"General Command of the Army", program 300 "National Defense", Funding 1.1
"General Income", an item of $ 9,405,985 (nine million four hundred five thousand
nine hundred and eighty-five Uruguayan pesos), from the objects of expenditure that are
detail a specific object of expenditure that will enable the General Accounting Office of the
Nation:

Object of the

Amount $

Spending
042.103

2,382,915

042,520

658,822

042,536

2,500,000

047.001

285,756

047,500

1,634,922

059,000

621,867

081,000

1,226,572

082,000

80,842

087,000

14,289

Total

9,405,985

Page 46

46

Article 45.- Increase in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretary of State", program 343 "Training and
Training ", Financing 1.1" General Income ", the budget credit of the object of the
expenditure 051 "Diets" in the sum of $ 2,500,000 (two million five hundred thousand pesos
Uruguayans), plus bonus and legal charges, destined to finance the increase of the
Education and Training programs in specific areas related to
National Defense and in technical areas of dual use (civil and military).

The amount resulting from the application of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, is
will finance with the reallocation of the budget credit of the object of expenditure 092,000
"Global items to be distributed", from Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretary of State", program 300 "Defense
National ", Financing 1.1" General Income ".

Article 46.- Inciso 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretary of State", to make changes of
denomination and series of positions belonging to levels A, B and D, according to
appropriate, in cases where the type of function allows it and is convenient for the
management of the executing unit.

The changes in the denomination or series of the positions that are made under the
present article, may not mean a change of ladder, and will maintain the following
equivalences:

Denomination

Quantity Ladder Grade
two

Current
TO

Denomination

Current Series

Serie

equivalent

13 Head of Professional Section

Adviser

Equivalent
Professional

Page 47

47

Denomination

Quantity Ladder Grade

Denomination

Current Series

Current

equivalent
Analyst at

1

TO

8 Advisor X

1

B

1

B

8 Technician V

1

B

3 Technician X

1

D

9

1

D

7 Head of Electronics Section

Computing

13 Head of the Procurator Section
Historian
Organization

Statistics

Department

Equivalent

Advisor X

Professional

Technician VIII

Attorney

Technician V

Computing

Technician X

and Methods

Deputy Chief of

Serie

Technician in
Administration

Specialist

Specialist

Specialist

Specialist

Article 47.- It is authorized in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretary of State", to the Junior Military Personnel
and Superior of the K "Military" ladder, to subrogate the positions of Head of Section and Deputy Head of
Section, until the organizational and job restructuring is approved.

Article 48.- Substitute Article 9 of Decree-Law No. 14,726, of 15 December
November 1977, by the following:

"ARTICLE 9 .- The minimum effective time of seniority in each grade, required
for the ascent it will be:

Grade

Age in years

Lieutenant colonel

4

Higher

4

Captain

4

Page 48

48

Grade

Age in years

First lieutenant

3

Second Lieutenant

3

Ensign

3

Chief Petty Officer

3

Sergeant 1st.

two

Sergeant

two

Cape 1st.

1

Cape 2nd

1

Soldier 1st.

1

Soldier 2nd.

1

The Supreme Military Court may waive the minimum time established
in this article and require at least one year of seniority in the degree,
for promotion to the next higher grade in each hierarchy, in the case of no
There are personnel in the "Military Justice" subscale that meets the effective time
minimum permanence in the degree provided in the previous paragraph. Is
An exception may be applied only to personnel of the subscale "Justice
Military "who performs functions in the orbit of the" Military Justice ", for a maximum of
up to two times, once in the Junior Personnel degrees and once in the
Officer degrees ".

Article 49.- Replace article 98 of the "Code of Organization of the Courts
Military ", approved by Decree-Law No. 10,326, of January 28, 1943, by the following:

"ARTICLE 98.- The Military Judges of First Instance will act with a
Secretary and an Assistant. Those of Instruction with a Secretary and two Assistants.

Page 49

49

The indicated Secretaries must be Junior Officers or Chiefs.

The Supreme Military Court and the Military Courts will have at least one

designated process server. The function of notifier may be performed by
officials who occupy positions of Cabo de 2da .; up to Chief Warrant Officer ".

Article 50.- Subsection 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 004 "General Command of the Army", to provide the tax deposit service of
Dangerous goods identified as Mandatory Direct Dispatch (DDO) already
charge a price for this concept, which will be set by the Executive Power, at the proposal of the
referred Ministry.

The deposit of these goods will be made in the orbit and under the responsibility of the
"Material and Armament Service".

The proceeds from this concept will be used to finance the expenses of
operation and investment in the facilities as well as in infrastructure of the aforementioned
tax deposit.

Article 51.- Increase in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 004 "General Command of the Army", program 300 "National Defense", the
item granted by article 64 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012, in the
wording given by article 82 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013, in the
sum of $ 4,574,068 (four million five hundred seventy-four thousand sixty-eight
Uruguayan pesos) annual and permanent, intended for the personnel of the Special Company
Antiterrorist (CEAT) of the 14th Parachute Infantry Battalion, which is

Page 50

fifty

directly and materially affected to risk functions in compliance with missions of
operational nature of its scope.

The amount resulting from the application of the provisions of the previous paragraph will be financed
with the reassignment of budget credit from Section 03 "Ministry of Defense
National ", executing unit 004" General Command of the Army ", program 300" Defense
National ", Financing 1.1" General Income ", object of expenditure 042.536
"Compensation A. 84 L 18834 MDN" of $ 4,154,825 (four million one hundred and fifty
four thousand eight hundred twenty-five Uruguayan pesos) and $ 419,243 (four hundred
nineteen thousand two hundred forty-three Uruguayan pesos) of the object of expenditure 047,500
"Equalization to military".

The provisions of this article may not have a budgetary cost.

Article 52.- Modify the name of the "Military Geographical Service", by
"Geographic Military Institute".

Article 53.- Delete in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 004 "General Command of the Army", program 300 "National Defense",
following positions: from the E "Trades" ladder, two positions of "Head of the Clothing Section and
Food ", Trades Series, grade 06, a position of" Deputy Head of the Clothing and
Food ", Trades Series, grade 05 and a position of" Head of the Clothing and
Food ", Trades Series, grade 04 and level F" Auxiliary Services ", a position of
"Manager", Service Series, grade 04 and two positions of "Auxiliary I", Service Series,
grade 02.

Believe in Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 004
"General Command of the Army", program 300 "National Defense", seven positions of the

Page 51

51

Rank E "Trades", of "Intermediate Officer III", Trades Series, grade 01.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 54.- Increase in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 300 "National Defense", in
up to 40% (forty percent) the compensation for "Permanence to the Order", created
by the third paragraph of article 27 of Law No. 16,462, of January 11, 1994, with the
modification made by article 115 of Law No. 16,736, of January 5, 1996,
for the incorporated personnel of the Naval Reserve.

The disbursement resulting from the application of the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be
will finance with the reallocation of $ 1,045,000 (one million forty-five thousand pesos
Uruguayans), of the object of expenditure 042.553 "Special Compensation for Assiduity of
Flight ", Financing 1.1" General Income ", to the object of expenditure 042.014" Compensation
for permanence to order ".

Article 55.- Delete in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 300 "National Defense",
twenty-five vacant positions of Lieutenant of Ship, seventeen vacant positions of Lieutenant of
Frigate and five vacant positions in the Marine Guard, all from the "De Comando" Series and
of program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime", four vacant positions of Lieutenant
of Ship, sixteen vacant positions of Lieutenant of Fragata and fifteen vacant positions of
Marine Guard, all from the "De Comando" Series.

Believe in Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 018
"General Command of the Navy", program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime",

Page 52

52

two hundred positions of First Class Sailors, "De Comando" Series, K "Personal rank
Military".

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 56. (Faculty to hire beach sailors within the framework of
agreements) .- The Ministry of National Defense, in order to optimize the
performance of assigned competencies and within the framework of coordination policies
and inter-institutional cooperation, may enter into agreements with the Municipalities
Departmental, when they require a reinforcement of the Beach Mariners service,
to provide surveillance services on beaches and coasts.

The Ministry of National Defense is empowered to hire the Beach Sailors who
are required within the framework of the aforementioned agreement, in the same terms as the
hired under the protection of literal B) of article 34 of Law No. 19,535, of 25
September 2017.

The maximum number of contracts to be entered into will be up to three hundred Sailors of
Beach.

It is empowered to the Executive Power, in agreement with the Ministries of National Defense and
of Economy and Finance, to regulate the conditions of provision of services, as well as
such as the criteria for setting prices and forms of payment.

The head of the Ministry of National Defense will sign the agreements to which
referred to in the preceding paragraphs, without prejudice to the delegative powers

Page 53

53

that are inherent to him, case by case.

The agreements entered into under this provision will be financed with
the payments that the requesting Intendancy will make and will be used to pay
salaries of contracted personnel and operating and investment expenses
necessary for the fulfillment of the agreement.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 57.- Reassign in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretary of State", program 300 "Defense
National ", Financing 1.1" General Income ", of the object of expenditure 092,000" Items
global to distribute ", the sum of $ 2,827,500 (two million eight hundred twenty-seven thousand
five hundred Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges, for the purpose of
expense 031,000 "seasonal and temporary salaries", plus bonus and legal charges, of the
program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime", of the executing unit 018 "Command
General of the Navy ", for the only time and for the current fiscal year, to finance
the hiring of the personnel designated to attend the surveillance services on beaches and
costs, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B), article 34 of Law No. 19,535,
of September 25, 2017.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 58.- Reassign yourself only once, for this fiscal year, in Item 03
"Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 018 "General Command of the Navy",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", a budget credit of $ 600,000 (six hundred

Page 54

54

thousand Uruguayan pesos) plus bonus and legal charges, of the object of expenditure 042,553
"Compensation for Flight Attendance", for the purpose of expenditure 031,000 "Remuneration
seasonal and seasonal ", plus bonus and legal contributions, in order to finance the payment of
the salaries of the Naval Reservists.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 59.- The first paragraph of article 65 of Law No. 18,996, of 7
November 2012, by the following:

"ARTICLE 65.- Subsection 03" Ministry of National Defense ", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 300 "Defense
Nacional ", to make the payment of a special compensation for the personnel
embarked, which will be received by the Senior and Junior Personnel of the
National Navy that provides services in ships of 50 tons of
displacement or more and with fixed endowment.

The onboard personnel will also receive a supplement to the aforementioned
compensation for each effective day of navigation, the amount of which will be determined
by regulation.

Authorize yourself to make the payment equivalent to the complement established in the
preceding paragraph, to personnel who, without being previously embarked, must
be summoned to navigate, when the needs of the service so
require ".

Page 55

55

The provisions of this article will have no budgetary cost.

Article 60.- Subsection 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 460 "Prevention and repression
of crime ", Financing 1.1" General Income "an item of $ 15,000,950 (fifteen
million nine hundred and fifty Uruguayan pesos), including bonus and legal charges, to
effects of granting compensation, to the Personnel of the General Command of the Navy,
that performs specific tasks in border control, fight against drug trafficking
and organized crime.

The compensation that is created in the previous paragraph will be financed with the reallocation
of the budget credit of Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 460 "Prevention and repression
of the crime ", Financing 1.1" General Income ", of the object of the expenditure 042.536
"Compensation A. 84 L 18834 MDN" for the sum of $ 3,770,657 (three million
seven hundred seventy thousand six hundred fifty-seven Uruguayan pesos) plus bonus and
legal charges, to the object of expenditure 092,000 "Global items to be distributed" of the
program 300 "National Defense", executing unit 001 "General Directorate of the Secretariat
of State ", for the sum of $ 6,444,031 (six million four hundred forty-four thousand
thirty-one Uruguayan pesos) and with the elimination of vacancies in the program 300
"National Defense" of the executing unit 018 "General Command of the Navy", of
according to the following detail:

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

1

TO

12

Advisor II

Lawyer

1

C

two

Administrative V Administrative

1

C

5

Administrative II Administrative

1

C

6

Administrative I Administrative

Page 56

56

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

1

D

7

Specialist III Specialization

two

AND

3

Officer VI

Trades

4

AND

4

Officer V

Trades

1

AND

5

Officer IV

Trades

1

F

3

Manager II

Services

1

F

4

Manager I

Services

1

D

8

Specialist II Specialization

two

F

1

Auxiliary I

Cleaner

3

AND

7

Officer II

Trades

3

AND

6

Officer III

Trades

The provisions of this article will have no budgetary cost.

The Executive Power will regulate the application of this provision.

Article 61.- It is authorized in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 300 "National Defense",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", an item of $ 2,563,600 (two million five hundred
sixty-three thousand six hundred Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges, with
destined to the payment of compensation, to military personnel performing tasks
priority or sensitive areas related to financial accounting, planning, management of
procurement and budget execution.

Reassign itself to finance the provisions of the previous paragraph, in Section 03
"Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 018 "General Command of the Navy",
program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime", Financing 1.1 "General Income", the

Page 57

57

budgetary credit of $ 2,040,000 (two million and forty thousand Uruguayan pesos), plus
Christmas bonus and legal charges, of the object of the expense 042.536 "Compensation A. 84 L 18834
MDN ", for the purpose of the expense that the General Accounting Office of the Nation will enable to such
effects.

The Executive Power will regulate this article.

Article 62.- Subsection 03 "Ministry of National Defense" to be hired under
the regime of articles 90 and 92 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013, with
prior and favorable report from the National Civil Service Office and the General Accounting Office
of the Nation, who as of June 30, 2018 are hired in the unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", in the Construction Service,
Repairs and Armament (SCRA).

These contracts will be exempted from the recruitment procedure and
selection regulated by articles 93 and 94 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20,
2013.

The contracts that are entered into under the regime provided for in article 90 of the
Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013, will have a term of six months, being of
application of the evaluation procedure provided for in current regulations. If the
The remuneration corresponding to the position in which the contracted person is incorporated is less than
that of the previous link, the resulting difference will be kept as compensation
personnel, which will be absorbed by future increases, by changes in the
salaries, promotions, increase in the rank of the official, compensations or items of
permanent nature, whatever its financing, that are granted in the future.

These contracts will not be part of the staff that by Agreement

Page 58

58

Collective is assimilated to group 8 (former group 13) Metallurgical Industry, Dikes,
Varaderos y Astilleros, of the National Union of Metal Workers and Related Branches
(UNTMRA).

Authorize the General Accounting Office of the Nation to create entry vacancies
necessary, which appear in Table I, which will be financed with the suppression of the
vacancies in Table II.

Table I: Charges to create

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

1

TO

4

Advisor X

Lawyer

two

TO

4

Advisor X

Notary

1

TO

4

Advisor X

Accountant

1

AND

1

Officer VIII

Electrician

1

AND

1

Officer VIII

Builder

Table II: Charges to be eliminated

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

3

AND

6

Officer III

Trades

1

F

1

Auxiliary I

Services

1

F

two

Manager III Services

3

AND

two

Officer VII

Trades

Page 59

59

Article 63.- Assign to Subsection 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 018 "General Command of the Navy", program 460 "Prevention and repression
of the crime ", Financing 1.2" Resources with Special Affectation ", an item of
$ 4,000,000 (four million Uruguayan pesos), in the object of expenditure 299,000 "Others
non-personal services not included in the above ", and $ 500,000 (five hundred thousand
Uruguayan pesos), plus bonus and legal charges, in the object of expenditure 051,000
"Diets", from the 343 "Training and Training" program, aimed at training
personal.

The amount resulting from the application of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, is
will be financed with the reassignment of budgetary credit of Section 03 "Ministry of Defense
National ", executing unit 018" General Command of the Navy ", program 300
"National Defense", Funding 1.2 "Resources with Special Affection", object of the
expense 042.004 "Complementary Remuneration for SCRA workers and managers", of
$ 3,460,000 (three million four hundred and sixty thousand Uruguayan pesos), plus Christmas bonus and
legal charges.

Article 64.- Increase in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 023 "General Command of the Air Force", program 300 "National Defense",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", the item assigned by article 56 of the Law
Nº 18,996, of November 7, 2012, with the modification made by article 43 of
Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017, in the amount of $ 2,068,985 (two million
sixty-eight thousand nine hundred eighty-five Uruguayan pesos), destined to finance
payment of monthly compensation for personnel performing police duties
national airline.

The item foreseen in the previous paragraph will be financed with the reallocation of the
budgetary credits of objects of expenditure 042.019 "Compensation for risk of
flight ", of the executing unit 023" General Command of the Air Force ",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", in the amount of $ 270,000 (two hundred and seventy thousand
Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges and 092,000 "Global items to

Page 60

60

Distribuir ", from the executing unit 001" General Directorate of the Secretary of State ", in the
sum of $ 1,798,985 (one million seven hundred ninety-eight thousand nine hundred eightyfive Uruguayan pesos), to the object of expenditure 042,555 "Special Police Compensation
Air National-MDN ".

This article will enter into force as of the promulgation of this law.

Article 65.- Subsection 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 023 "General Command of the Air Force", the provision and collection of services
flights provided by the Uruguayan Military Air Transport (TAMU) to Organisms of the
State and individuals.

The resources obtained will be used to finance the direct expenses of the service
provided, with the exception of that corresponding to human resources, as well as
operating and investment expenses necessary for the development and maintenance of
the training, instruction and training of flight crews of all
aerial platforms.

The Executive Power will regulate the provisions of this article.

Article 66.- Subsection 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 033 "National Directorate of Health of the Armed Forces", program 440
"Comprehensive Health Care", to pay the difference in assets that could be generated
in cases of promotion, from a position from Ensign to Second Lieutenant or from a position of
Second Lieutenant to First Lieutenant, when the staff receives remuneration
lower in the degree to which it is promoted, which will be considered a compensation
personal and will be absorbed in the opportunity to generate rights in the perception of the
permanence in the degree.

Page 61

61

The compensation created by this article will be financed by credit
budgetary provision for expenditure objects 047,500 "Military Equalization" and
042.520 "Special compensation for meeting specific conditions". In each
opportunity, the subsection must notify the General Accounting Office of the
corresponding budget movement.

Article 67.- Provide that the staff of the former autonomous entity First Lines
Uruguayan Air Navigation Companies, incorporated in public function contracts of a
permanent in Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 041
"National Directorate of Civil Aviation and Aeronautical Infrastructure", will occupy

"National Directorate of Civil Aviation and Aeronautical Infrastructure", will occupy
budgeted positions, under the conditions provided in article 38 of the Law
Nº 18,719, of December 27, 2010, in the wording given by Article 5 of the Law
No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013.

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will reallocate the corresponding credits for
implement this provision.

Article 68.- It is authorized in Section 03 "Ministry of National Defense", unit
executor 041 "National Civil Aviation and Aeronautical Infrastructure Directorate",
program 367 "Aviation policy and infrastructure", in group 0 "Services
Personal ", charged to Financing 1.1" General Income ", an annual item of
$ 41,752,596 (forty-one million seven hundred fifty-two thousand five hundred ninetysix Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges, for the payment of a
special compensation for the concept of a check-in or availability, to the
Air Traffic Controllers who effectively fulfill functions in the Division
Air Traffic of the Air Traffic Directorate.

The compensation enabled in the previous paragraph will be subject to montepío,

Page 62

62

adjusted annually according to the index determined by the Executive Power for the
salary increases for public officials of the Central Administration and will not be
taken into account for the calculation of the hourly value or for the calculation of remuneration
settle based on percentages.

Reassign the budget credit of $ 26,001,523 (twenty-six million one thousand
five hundred twenty-three Uruguayan pesos), plus bonus and legal charges, of the object of the
expenditure 058,000 "Overtime", in Financing 1.2 "Resources with Special Affection",
destined to finance the compensation established in the previous paragraph, to an object of the
specific expense that for these purposes will enable the General Accounting Office of the Nation.

The National Directorate of Civil Aviation and Aeronautical Infrastructure must
General Income before February 28 of each fiscal year, the amount equivalent to the
amount paid in the previous year for the compensation created in the
this standard.

Article 69.- Except the Air Traffic Control officers of the
Item 03 "Ministry of National Defense", executing unit 041 "National Directorate of
Civil Aviation and Aeronautical Infrastructure "that effectively fulfill functions in the
Air Traffic Division of the Air Traffic Directorate, of the application of the
provisions of Title II, Chapters III, IV in article 55, V and VI of Law No. 19,121,
of August 20, 2013, and its amendments.

This provision shall enter into force once approved by the Power of Attorney
Executive, the Sub-Statute of the Air Traffic Controller, which must have
prior and favorable report from the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

Article 70.- Declare the National Antarctic Policy as a public policy oriented

Page 63

63

through extensive agreements.

It will draw up the guidelines for the effort of the set of actions
carried out by public and private institutions and guide the development of
diplomatic, scientific and logistical activities that make possible the permanence and
Acting of the Republic as a Consultative Member of the Antarctic Treaty.

The Executive Branch, at the proposal of the Interministerial Cabinet on Antarctic Affairs,
The political and strategic leadership body will approve the general guidelines of the
National Antarctic Policy.

SECTION 04

MINISTRY OF INTERIOR

Article 71.- Increase in Item 04 "Ministry of the Interior", the item
provided by Article 152 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, with
destined to "Scholarships", in $ 45,063,158 (forty-five million sixty-three thousand one hundred
fifty-eight Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges, destined for
finance the hiring of up to 120 (one hundred and twenty) scholarship holders in order to receive the
complaints from people who attend sections and Specialized Units in
Domestic and Gender Violence (UEVDG).

Article 72.- Increase in Item 04 "Ministry of the Interior", the item
provided in Article 151 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, with destination
to the High Dedication Operational Program (PADO), in $ 35,543,353 (thirty-five
million five hundred forty-three thousand three hundred fifty-three Uruguayan pesos)

Page 64

64

including bonus and legal charges, destined to finance the compensation of up to
two hundred officials of the executive subscale who are affected by the program.

Article 73.- Assign in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", executing unit 001
"Secretariat of the Ministry of the Interior", program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", an item of $ 220,000,000 (two hundred twenty
million Uruguayan pesos) including Christmas bonus and legal charges, destined to the payment of
compensation for night work, established in Law No. 19,313, of February 13,
2015, to officials of the levels L "Police Personnel", and S "Penitentiary Personnel",
under the conditions established by the regulations.

The Ministry of the Interior is empowered to redistribute the aforementioned item among its units
executors and their corresponding programs.

Article 74.- Increase the item foreseen in the object of the expense 554,035
"National Patronage of Imprisoned and Released" in program 461 of the unit
executor 001 "Secretariat of the Ministry of the Interior" of Item 04 "Ministry of the Interior",
in the sum of $ 5,000,000 (five million Uruguayan pesos) charged to the
Financing 1.1 "General Income".

Article 75.- Delete in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", in level L
"Police Personnel", in the executing units and programs indicated, the following
positions and functions contracted:

Denomination of the

UE Degree Program

position

Amount of charges

Subscale

005

460

two

Cape

3

Specialized Police

005

460

two

Cape

1

Service Police

Profession/
Specialty

Page 65

65

Denomination of the

UE Degree Program

position

Amount of charges

Subscale

006

460

1

Agent

5

Specialized Police

006

460

1

Agent

7

Administrative Police

006

460

two

Cape

3

Service Police

006

461

two

Cape

1

Specialized Police Nurse

007

460

two

Cape

3

Administrative Police

007

460

1

Agent

3

Specialized Police

007

460

3

Sergeant

1

Service Police

008

460

1

Agent

7

Administrative Police

008

460

1

Agent

6

Specialized Police

009

460

1

Agent

two

Administrative Police

009

460

1

Agent

3

Specialized Police

010

460

two

Cape

3

Specialized Police

011

460

1

Agent

1

Administrative Police

011

460

1

Agent

3

Specialized Police

011

460

two

Cape

1

Service Police

011

460

1

Agent

1

Service Police

012

460

1

Agent

1

Specialized Police

013

460

1

Agent

two

Administrative Police

013

460

1

Agent

two

Specialized Police

013

461

1

Agent

1

Specialized Police

013

460

two

Cape

two

Service Police

014

460

two

Cape

two

Administrative Police

014

460

1

Agent

1

Specialized Police

015

460

two

Cape

1

Specialized Police

016

460

1

Agent

two

Administrative Police

Profession/
Specialty

Page 66

66

Denomination of the

UE Degree Program

position

Amount of charges

Subscale

016

460

two

Cape

1

Specialized Police

017

460

1

Agent

two

Administrative Police

017

460

two

Cape

1

Specialized Police

017

460

1

Agent

1

Specialized Police

018

460

1

Agent

4

Administrative Police

018

461

1

Agent

1

Administrative Police

018

460

4

Chief Petty Officer

1

Specialized Police

018

460

3

Sergeant

1

Specialized Police

019

460

1

Agent

two

Administrative Police

019

460

two

Cape

4

Specialized Police

020

460

1

Agent

1

Administrative Police

020

460

two

Cape

1

Specialized Police

021

460

two

Cape

6

Administrative Police

021

460

two

Cape

4

Specialized Police

022

460

two

Cape

1

Specialized Police

022

460

1

Agent

two

Administrative Police

Profession/
Specialty

Article 76.- Decrease in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", unit
executor 001 "Secretariat of the Ministry of the Interior", program 460 "Prevention and
repression of crime ", in Financing 1.1" General Income ", object of expenditure 092,000
"Global items to be distributed", the sum of $ 37,066,302 (thirty-seven million sixtysix thousand three hundred two Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges.

Article 77.- Create in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", executing unit 001
"Secretariat of the Ministry of the Interior", program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime",
a position of Assistant Officer (PA), under the provisions of Article 21 of the Law

Page 67

67

Nº 16,736, of January 5, 1996, which will be occupied exclusively by the official
whose situation gave rise to creation.

Delete in the paragraph, program and executing unit cited, the position of Non-commissioned Officer
Major (PA).

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will authorize the budgetary credits in the
corresponding objects of expenditure.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 78.- Article 43 of Law No. 19,315, of February 18,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 43. (Entry modalities) .- Entry to the National Police is
will produce by any of the following modalities:

A) As a student of the Instituto de Formación y Capacitación de la Escala
Basic or Departmental Police Schools, having said
quality during the training process, from which you will graduate after
approval of the corresponding course, with the degree of Agent, Firefighter or
Executive subscale guard.

Page 68

68

B) In a vacant entry position of the Administrative or
Specialized, through competition.

C) In a vacant entry position of the Professional Technical subscale,
by means of competition ".

Article 79.- Article 128 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4,
2011, by the following:

"ARTICLE 128.- Subsection 04" Ministry of the Interior "is authorized to withhold from the
the official's assets the cost of the police equipment, in case of loss or
dispossession of the same, when the circumstances of the case arise that
said official acted with guilt or intent.

When debts arise from the Unified Vehicle Income Collection System
(SUCIVE), for the concept of fines applied to officials who perform tasks
as drivers of official vehicles, in administrative tasks for said
Subsequently, the retention of the corresponding assets for the amount of the fines,
it may be carried out without further ado ".

Article 80.- Authorize the National Directorate of Support to the Released, to formalize the
retention of up to 10% (ten percent), of the assets that people receive
released to participate in their support programs.

The proceeds of the proceeds will be used to finance support activities and
promotion of labor insertion of those released from the prison system, who are
forward in the aforementioned Address and will be included in the provisions of literal C) of the

Page 69

69

Article 595 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10, 1987, and amendments.

Article 81.- All mobile service operators in the country must have
a mechanism to identify the mobile telephony devices to which they provide
service.

The Executive Power shall regulate the provisions of this article within the term of
180 days from the enactment of this law.

Give yourself a period of 180 days from the aforementioned regulation for the
compliance with the provisions of the first paragraph.

Article 82.- Any measure of use of electronic device must have
previously with a favorable technical report regarding its effectiveness and viability,
In turn, the express consent of the victim must be obtained to be a user of the
electronic monitoring program.

The installation and validity of the electronic surveillance measure, in any case,
will be subject to compliance with obligations by users, which are
determined in the respective regulations that will be issued by the Executive Power within a
of one hundred and twenty days.

In the event of non-compliance with the aforementioned obligations, the measure
it will cease and will be communicated immediately to the competent judge.

Page 70

70

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 83.- Only custody may be decreed as a protection measure
personal, provided that the person is included in the Victims Program and
Protected witnesses of the Office of the Attorney General of the Nation, for which the
risk assessment report presented by the Risk Assessment Committee of the
program made up of the Prosecutor acting in the case, the Official of the case (Ministry of the
Interior) and the Victims and Witnesses Unit of the Attorney General's Office. The
permanence of the protection measure is subject to compliance with the signed Agreement
to enter the program and the monitoring carried out by the Victims and Witnesses Unit
of the Attorney General's Office.

Regarding the victims of gender-based violence, to be decreed as
protection measure a personal custody, it will be necessary to have the consent
victim's statement and technical risk assessment report. The permanence of the
protection measure is subject to compliance with the signed Agreement, in case of
breach of the same, this will be communicated to the competent judge requesting the cessation
Of the same.

This provision shall be subject to the regulations issued by the Power of Attorney
Executive within one hundred and twenty days.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 84.- Substitute article 46 bis of Decree-Law No. 14,470, of 2
December 1975, in the wording given by article 127 of Law No. 18,834, of 4

Page 71

71

November 2011, by the following:

"ARTICLE 46 bis.- Up to 10% (ten percent) of the remuneration that
perceived by persons deprived of liberty due to labor relations
prisons will be assigned to the National Directorate for the Support of the Released,
being included in literal C) of article 595 of Law No. 15,903,
of November 10, 1987, and amendments ".

Article 85.- The Ministry of the Interior is empowered to enable the entry of students,
up to the amount of credits authorized for it. If the training process is finished
there are no vacant budgetary positions, the applicants will cease as students and
will become part of a priority list for admission, until the
respective vacancies. During said period they will not receive any remuneration.

Article 86.- Replace Article 45 of Law No. 19,315, of February 18,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 45.- The Executive Power will manage the filling of the vacancies that
are necessary for the annual income of aspiring Officers.

When the number of applicants exceeds the number of vacancies, the test of
Admission will have the character of a competitive examination.

Applicants to the Officers course must belong to the Basic Scale of the
Executive subscale, and comply with the provisions of the following article ".

Page 72

72

Article 87.- Delete in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", unit
executor 029 "National Directorate of Police Education", program 343 "Training and
Training ", two hundred thirty-two positions of Cadets.

Article 88.- The personnel of the Administrative and Specialized subscales
You must have passed the full baccalaureate to be able to compete
for promotion to the rank of Assistant Officer of the respective subscale.

This provision shall apply to income that occurs as of the
January 1, 2019.

Article 89.- They are transformed into Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", unit
executor 033 "Republican Guard", program 460 "Prevention and repression of crime",
in the L "Police Personnel" ladder, grade 01, Executive subscale, forty
Contracted functions of the Republican Guard (GR), created by article 116 of the Law
Nº 18,834, of November 4, 2011, in forty positions of the Republican Guard (GR).
The provisions of this article may not generate budgetary cost.

Article 90.- The second paragraph of Article 1 of Law No. 17,829, of 18
of September 2004, in the wording given by article 32 of Law No. 19,210, of 29
April 2014, by the following:

"They are included within the provisions of literal D) prior to withholdings
requested by the Ministry of National Defense, derived from loans with
destined to housing granted to the personnel of the subsection in activity, retired, liabilities
and pensioners and the credits granted by the Police Social Guardianship Fund with
similar fate. In the case of withholdings for the service of

Page 73

73

rental guarantee provided by the aforementioned Fund, they are included
within the provisions of literal A) above ".

Article 91.- As of fiscal year 2019, the contracts provided for in article 147 of
Law Nº 17.296, of February 21, 2001, carried out by the executing unit 034 "Directorate
National Social Affairs "of Item 04" Ministry of the Interior ", charged to the Fund
created by Article 86 of Law No. 13,640, of December 26, 1967, that exceed the
annual amount of $ 230,000,000 (two hundred and thirty million Uruguayan pesos), will be
absolutely null.

Of the amount established in the preceding paragraph $ 66,000,000 (sixty-six million
Uruguayan pesos) may be used exclusively with destination Centers of
Pediatric Intensive Treatment and expansion of the Treatment Center beds
Intensive and Intermediate Care of Adults compared to those existing in the exercise
2012.

The amounts set will be adjusted annually according to the variation of the
Average Salary Index prepared by the National Institute of Statistics (INE).

Repeal article 130 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 92.- The Executive Power is authorized to carry out the following transformations
in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", following a report from the General Accounting Office of the
Nation, in the denomination and series of positions corresponding to the unit

Page 74

74

executor 034 "National Directorate of Social Affairs", program 440 "Comprehensive Care
of the Health ", and program 402" Social Security "according to the established in the Law
Nº 19,315, of February 18, 2015 (Organic Police Law), and its amendments. Bliss
transformation will not mean variation in remuneration, nor will it cost
budgetary.

Article 93.- Create in Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", program 460
"Prevention and Repression of Crime", the "Directorate of Investigations of the Police
Nacional ", which will be made up of the General Directorate of Information and Intelligence
Police, Directorate General for the Fight Against Organized Crime and Interpol, and Directorate
General for the Repression of Illicit Drug Trafficking.

The "Specialized Team in Serious Violations of the
Human Rights ", created in Article 165 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19
of 2015, which will collaborate directly with legal operators of the Judicial Branch and of
the Office of the Attorney General of the Nation, in the investigations into violations of rights
human rights that occurred within the framework of the breach of the Rule of Law referred to in the
Law No. 18,596, of September 18, 2009.

It will have national jurisdiction and will report directly to the Director of the Police
National.

Article 94.- Article 148 of Law No. 16,736, of January 5, 1996, be replaced
in the wording given by article 192 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 148.- Suppress the position of particular trust of General Director
of Information and Police Intelligence. Believe, with the character of particular
trust, the position of Director of Investigations of the National Police, which
It will be included in literal D) of article 9 of Law No. 15,809, of 8 of
April 1986.

Page 75

75

The Director of Investigations of the National Police will receive a supplement of
their remuneration until reaching 80% (eighty percent) of the remuneration of the
Director of the National Police. The authorized add-on will not be incompatible
with the perception of retirement assets ".

Repeal the second paragraph of article 14 of Law No. 19,315, of February 18
of 2015 and Article 54 of Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017.

The provisions of this article may not generate budgetary cost.

Article 95.- Replace Article 40 of Law No. 19,315, of February 18,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 40. (Suspension of the Police Status) .- The Police Status is suspended
when the policeman commits acts expressly determined by the regulations
current, such as:

A) Precautionary measure ordered by the competent authority in a
disciplinary procedure.

B) Disciplinary sanction.

C) Formalization of the criminal investigation with a preventive detention measure.

Page 76

76

D) Suspension or loss of legal citizenship ".

Article 96.- The Ministry of the Interior will have executive action, for the collection of the
credits emanating from the damage caused to the electronic control devices of the
measures ordered by the Justice and whose reparation is made, against those who
would have been recipients of the same, provided that the damage had been produced
with guilt or intent.

To this end, the testimony of the firm resolution of the
that the credit arises, the provisions of Chapter IV being applicable in the pertinent
"Tax Procedural Law" of the Tax Code.

Article 97.- Telecommunications operators, in calls made to the
emergency 911 from mobile phone services, they must provide the Ministry
of the Interior, the geographical location of the device at the time of the call, with the
highest possible precision: base radio, cellular cell, GPS and other data obtained
of the same, through the technical mechanisms that are specified for receipt of
the same.

Article 98.- Subsection 04 "Ministry of the Interior" is authorized to transfer, by title
free, from the domain of the State to the Municipal Administration of Montevideo, the property
located in the department of Montevideo, Cadastral Town Montevideo,
registered with No. 66,821 (sixty-six thousand eight hundred twenty-one), which according to
plan of the Surveyor Juan F. Ros, registered with No. 156, on March 17, 1934, in the
General Directorate of Appraisals and Administration of State Assets, consists of a
surface area of ​48,820 m 2 , for the purpose of building a public space for coexistence. The
administrative act will operate as title and mode of said transfer of ownership, being sufficient
for registration in the Property Registry, Real Estate Section, a testimony of the

Page 77

77

same.

Article 99.- Replace Article 88 of Law No. 19,315, of February 18,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 88. (Total withholding of assets) .- When provided by
criminal justice the formalization of the investigation of a police officer,
The administrative summary instruction must be provided in a mandatory manner.
If said formalization is ordered with preventive detention, or other measures
that affect or impede the fulfillment of the service, the
total retention of assets, for the duration of the confinement or the measure ordered.

In cases where the formalization referred to in the preceding paragraph has been
resolved by facts related to the function that presume compliance
of the law, the Minister of the Interior may order, by reasoned resolution, the payment
partial or total of the assets to the official ".

SECTION 05

MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE

Article 100.- It is established that the positions in Item 05 "Ministry of Economy and
Finances ", of the executing unit 003" Internal Audit of the Nation ", which are detailed at
Then, they will modify their denomination and series when vacating, according to the following detail:

Page 78

78

Esc. Degree Current denomination
Coordinator of
TO

16

TO

16

TO

16

TO

16 Division Director

TO

fifteen

TO

fifteen

TO

fifteen

TO

fifteen

TO

Denomination to

Current series

Series when vacating

vacate

Audit

Advisor I

Professional

Audit

Advisor I

Professional

Audit

Advisor I

Professional

Accountant

Advisor I

Professional

Audit

Advisor II

Professional

Audit

Advisor II

Professional

Audit

Advisor II

Professional

Accountant

Advisor II

Professional

14 Head of Department Lawyer

Advisor III

Professional

TO

14 Head of Department Lawyer

Advisor III

Professional

TO

14 Head of Accountant Department

Advisor III

Professional

TO

14 Head of Accountant Department

Advisor III

Professional

TO

14 Head of Accountant Department

Advisor III

Professional

TO

14 Head of Accountant Department

Advisor III

Professional

TO

14 Head of IT Department

Advisor III

Professional

B

13 Head of Technical Department

Technician III

Technical

C

14 Head of Secretariat

Administrative

Administrative I

Administrative

C

12 Deputy Chief

Administrative

Administrative III

Administrative

Division
Coordinator of
Division
Coordinator of
Division

Sub-coordinator of
Division
Sub-coordinator of
Division
Sub-coordinator of
Division
Deputy Director of
Division

Page 79

79

If one or more positions of those described in the previous paragraph, will be found
vacancies on the date of promulgation of this law, will change their name and
series, as of that date.

Article 101.- Substitute the section of article 249 of Law No. 13,637, of 21 of
December 1967, by the following:

"ARTICLE 249. (Destination of the Collection) .- The product of the Tax on
Primary Education, including fines and surcharges derived from
breach of the obligations related to the tax, excluding the
expenses for collection commissions charged by collecting agents and
costs arising from the distribution of billing, will be allocated to Item 25
"National Administration of Public Education", executing unit 002 "Council
of Initial and Primary Education ", which may be used for the following purposes:".

The provisions of Article 221 of Law No. 13,637, of December 21, 1967, no
it will be applicable to the Primary Education Tax.

Monthly the General Tax Directorate will inform the Administration
National Public Education, the total amounts collected and the amounts deducted
for expenses for collection commission and billing distribution. In addition,
must provide all information related to the collection that the Administration
National Public Education request.

Repeal articles 245 and 246 of Law No. 13,637, of December 21, 1967
and Article 76 of Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017.

Page 80

80

The provisions of this article will govern from the promulgation of the present
law and will be applicable to income and expenses that occur in 2018 and
following.

Article 102.- Except for compliance with the provisions of Article 55 of the
Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013, of Item 05 "Ministry of Economy and
Finance ", to the executing unit 005" General Tax Directorate ".

For the purposes of filling vacancies for promotion, a call will be made to which
Only the budgeted officials of said office may apply, who, at their own discretion,
Once, they will not be able to apply for promotion competitions of other executing units of the
Incised.

If the contest is void, only vacancies may be filled through
of a public and open call under the modality of provisional contract, foreseen in
Article 90 of the aforementioned law.

The provisions of this article shall apply to promotions made
after the enactment of this law.

Article 103.- Inciso 05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance", unit
executor 008 "National Directorate of Lotteries and Quinielas", to apply fines from
2,000 IU (two thousand indexed units) up to 60,000 IU (sixty thousand indexed units),
In the cases of non-compliance in the generation in time and form, of the files of
gambling, which are required of gambling licensees, in accordance with legal regulations and
current regulations.

Page 81

81

This power may also be applied, taking into account the seriousness and damage
caused, before the infractions in the cases of transmission, sending and presentation of
reports, data and documents for all the games that it regulates, controls and
oversees the aforementioned executing unit, in accordance with the regulations that the Executive Power
dictate in accordance with the provisions of the final paragraph of this article.

For the generation, the use of the digital signature procedure is established and
Mandatory time stamping, prior to the completion of each draw, and for the
files or set of files corresponding to the different game modes
that are subject to the supervision of the National Lottery Directorate and
Pools.

Regarding the transmission and presentation, the technical inconveniences not attributable
to the gambling licensees, who prevent its compliance in a timely manner, will be
Liability exemptions, provided that due diligence had been used
in protection of the game and the rules that govern it.

The fines will be graduated according to the seriousness of the fact, the history of
the permit holders and the primarity or repetition of the conduct.

It is declared that the provisions relating to penalties provided for non-compliance
in the exploitation and reception of the game, they remain in force.

The economic sanctions will be determined, applied and received by the
National Directorate of Lotteries and Quinielas.

Page 82

82

The Executive Power shall regulate the provisions of this article, establishing
the infringement behaviors to be sanctioned and related to the presentation or shipment
o generation of reports and data that refer to the game, as well as the corresponding
financial penalties.

Article 104.- Increase in Section 05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance",
executing unit 009 "National Land Registry Office", program 421 "System of
territorial information ", the item created by article 186 of Law No. 18,362, of 6
October 2008, in $ 1,100,000 (one million one hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus
and legal charges, destined to finance the payment of an incentive, conditional on the
meeting annual performance goals.

The item authorized by this article will be financed with the reallocation of credits
budget of the object of expenditure 095.005 "Fund to finance transitory functions and
conduction ", from Item 05" Ministry of Economy and Finance ", executing unit 009
"National Land Registry Office", program 421 "Territorial information system",
Project 000 "Operation", Financing 1.1 "General Income".

Article 105.- Inciso 05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance" is empowered, through
of the executing unit 014 "Directorate General of Commerce", to sign agreements of
payment of the fines that it imposes, under the conditions and terms that it establishes,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 32 and 34 of the Tax Code, approved by
Decree-Law No. 14.306, of November 29, 1974.

Article 106.- They are transformed into Item 05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance",
executing unit 005 "General Tax Directorate", the following positions:

Charges to transform

Transformed charges

Page 83

83

Post Plaza Esc. Gdo
51536

fifteen

Denomination

Serie

Esc. Gdo.

Denomination

Serie

TO

4

Advisor XIII

Lawyer

TO

12 Advisor V

Lawyer

24373

241

TO

4

Advisor XIII

Accountant

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

24373

242

TO

4

Advisor XIII

Accountant

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

4

Advisor XIII

Professional

TO

10 Advisor VII

Professional

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

40838

1

TO

24812

4

TO

10 Advisor VII

24217

1

TO

10 Advisor VII

Science

Science

Communication
29952

1

TO

10 Advisor VII

29766

39

TO

10 Advisor VII

Communication

Notary

TO

11 Advisor VI

TO

11 Advisor VI

Engineer of

Notary
Engineer of

Systems

Systems

29769

306

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

TO

11 Advisor V

Accountant

29769

305

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

TO

11 Advisor V

Accountant

29769

304

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

TO

11 Advisor V

Accountant

24812

66

TO

10 Advisor VII

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

24812

67

TO

10 Advisor VII

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

24812

70

TO

10 Advisor VII

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

24812

69

TO

10 Advisor VII

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

24812

27

TO

10 Advisor VII

Lawyer

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

TO

10 Advisor VII

Lawyer

TO

12 Advisor V

Lawyer

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

TO

12 Advisor V

Accountant

24812
29769

two
181

24592

1

TO

10 Advisor VII

Professional

TO

12 Advisor V

Professional

24512

1

TO

10 Advisor VII

Psychologist

TO

13 Advisor IV

Psychologist

24512

two

TO

10 Advisor VII

Psychologist

TO

13 Advisor IV

Psychologist

24843

2. 3

TO

11 Advisor VI

Accountant

TO

12 Advisor V

Accountant

24843

36

TO

11 Advisor VI

Accountant

TO

14 Advisor III

Accountant

24843

38

TO

11 Advisor VI

Accountant

TO

14 Advisor III

Accountant

24893

6

TO

11 Advisor VI

Notary

TO

13 Advisor IV

Notary

24893

7

TO

11 Advisor VI

Notary

TO

13 Advisor IV

Notary

24893

4

TO

11 Advisor VI

Notary

TO

14 Advisor III

Notary

24893

5

TO

11 Advisor VI

Notary

TO

14 Advisor III

Notary

84564

3

TO

Accountant

TO

10 Advisor VII

Accountant

24227

9

B

10 Technician VI

Technical

TO

11 Advisor VI

Accountant

24227

7

B

10 Technician VI

Technical

TO

11 Advisor VI

Lawyer

6

Advisor XI

Page 84

84

Charges to transform
Post Plaza Esc. Gdo

Transformed charges

Denomination

Serie

Esc. Gdo.

Denomination

Technician in
24515

4

B

10 Technician VI

Administration

Technician in
B

11 Technician V

of Companies
24960

28

C

24963

39

D

8

Administrative VII Administrative

10 Specialist V

Administration
of Companies

C

Specialization

Serie

TO

9

Administrative VI

11 Advisor VI

They will be occupied exclusively by officials whose situation gives
origin to the respective transformations. In no case will the planned transformations
in this article may mean injury to functional rights, cost
budgetary or cash.

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will reallocate the budget credits
necessary for compliance with the provisions of this article.

Article 107.- Article 316 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27,
2010, which will be drawn up as follows:

"ARTICLE 316.- Authorize the executing unit 008" National Directorate of
Lotteries and Quinielas "to be contracted in accordance with the legal conditions and
regulations to act exclusively as singing children, under the
internship modality, in accordance with the provisions of article 51 of this
law. For these purposes, the candidates suggested by the Institute of the
Child and Adolescent of Uruguay in the current hiring framework.

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will reallocate the credits of the created item
in Article 539 of Law No. 13,640, of December 26, 1967, which
they are currently used to finance the aforementioned remuneration ".

Page 85

85

Article 108.- The National Customs Directorate may contract under the regime of the
Article 90 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013, with a prior and favorable report
of the National Office of the Civil Service and of the General Accounting Office of the Nation, to
who at the date of the promulgation of this law are hired
by means of the Labor Contract modality of article 92 of Law No. 19,121, of 20
August 2013.

These contracts will be exempted from the recruitment procedure and
selection regulated by articles 93 and 94 of Law No. 19,121, of August 20,
2013.

Authorize the General Accounting Office of the Nation to create entry vacancies
necessary, using the appropriations assigned to finance the contracts of
work, as well as to carry out the corresponding reassignments in order to give
compliance with the provisions of this article.

The provisions of this article may not generate budgetary cost.

Article 109.- Replace the third, fourth and sixth paragraphs of Article 45 of the

Administrative
Accountant

Law No. 19,438, of October 14, 2016, by the following:

"The Budget Adequacy Commission will determine the structure of the
remunerations taking into consideration those received in Section 25
"National Public Education Administration", including the corresponding item
a "Compensation for Permanence in Order" of the object of expenditure 042.014 and the
item corresponding to "Compensation for 25 and 30 years of activity not
teacher ", as well as the rank and grade assigned in the General Directorate
Tax. If there are differences, they will be categorized as personal compensation that

Page 86

86

gets absorbed in future promotions. "

"To determine the amount of remuneration paid out of the
object of expense 042.014 "Compensation for permanence on order", linked to the
collection of the tax, one twelfth of the annual nominal amount that
the official received in the year prior to joining the
destination, without it being applicable to this effect, the discount linked to the
of strict assistance ".

"The expenditures resulting from the application of paragraphs one to four of the
This article will be financed with the reallocation of the credits that
correspond from Item 25 "National Public Education Administration" to Item
05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance", executing unit 005 "General Directorate
Tax ", with the exception of the difference that may arise from the adaptation to the
ladder and grade assigned in the destination unit. It will be financed with
credits from executing unit 005 "General Tax Directorate", as well as
provided in the fifth paragraph ".

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law and will be applicable from the moment the General Tax Directorate
has assumed the collection of the tax.

Page 87

87

SECTION 06

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Article 110.- Authorize them in Section 06 "Ministry of Foreign Relations",
executing unit 001 "Ministry of Foreign Relations", program 480 "Execution of
Foreign Policy "in the M" Foreign Service Personnel "ladder, the following
modifications in the position structure:

Elimination of the following vacant positions:

- Two positions of First Secretary of the Foreign Service, level M, grade 03.

- Four positions of Second Secretary of the Foreign Service, level M, grade
02.

Creation of the following positions:

- Two positions of Ambassador of the Foreign Service, level M, grade 07.

- Two positions of Minister of Foreign Service, level M, grade 06.

The modifications provided in this article will not generate cost
budgetary.

Page 88

88

Article 111.- Incorporate into article 43 of Decree-Law No. 14,206, of June 6,
1974, in the wording given by article 27 of Law No. 15,767, of September 13,
1985, the following subsection:

"Third Secretaries of the Foreign Service may not be assigned to
perform functions abroad, until they prove a minimum seniority of
three years in the ranks of the Foreign Service. "

The provisions of this article shall take effect for officials who enter
from the first entry contest after the effective date of this law.

Article 112.- The national organizations that must resolve on procedures
immigration, may consider valid and effective for the purposes of said procedures
immigration, without the need for legalization or apostille, those public documents
foreign electronic cards with electronic signature, in accordance with the provisions of the Law
No. 18,600, of September 21, 2009, and in case of copying a verification code,
whose authenticity can be confirmed through the security codes or in the
official web pages of the organizations of the issuing countries of origin of the respective
document. For these purposes, the public official responsible for the collation will leave under his
signature and responsibility, proof of the authentication practiced.

Article 113.- Exoneration of the payment of Consular Fee to the passport visa for
those people who need it to enter the Republic, and who have
processed from the Diplomatic Missions and Consular Offices of the Republic in the
Exterior:

Page 89

89

A) Temporary residence, within the framework of the agreements on vacations and work
that are in force between the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and other
countries; or to teachers, students, scholars and interns; or to investors,
operators, technicians, managers, and other personnel linked to companies.

B) Permanent residence, according to article 33 of Law No. 18,250, of 6
January 2008, with the modifications introduced by Article 2 of Law No.
19,254, of August 28, 2014.

C) Permanent entry to the Republic.

D) Entry under the protection of article 10 of Law No. 18,250, of January 6, 2008.

Article 114.- Substitute Article 142 of Law No. 13,318, of December 28,
1964, in the wording given by article 253 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 142.- Exempt from paying consular fees to the list of
personal belongings and certificates of existence, residence, registration of
civil and educational status, which are issued to officials of the Ministry of
Foreign Relations and the Military Attachés, and their dependents,
on the occasion of his departure abroad to fulfill permanent functions, as well
as well as at the time of his return to the country ".

Article 115.- Article 15 of Decree-Law No. 14,206 of June 6,
1974, by the following:

"ARTICLE 15.- The positions of the Foreign Service will have, in hierarchical order

Page 90

90

decreasing, the following categories and degrees:

7 - Ambassador / Ambassador
6 - Minister / Minister
5 - Minister Counselor / Minister Counselor
4 - Counselor / Counselor
3 - First Secretary / First Secretary
2 - Second Secretary / Second Secretary
1 - Third Secretary / Third Secretary ".

Article 116.- Replace Article 72 of Law No. 15,851, of December 24,
1986, in the wording given by article 335 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27,
2010, by the following:

"ARTICLE 72.- There will be three categories of destinations abroad, graduated from
A) to C), according to the special living conditions they present, namely:

Category A) destinations that do not present special life circumstances that
make it difficult to adapt and exercise the function;

Category B) that present any particular functional or
adaptation; Y

Page 91

91

Category C) destinations that present living conditions particularly
difficult.

These categories will be regulated and updated periodically by the
Ministry of Foreign Relations taking into consideration the circumstances
objective of the same, such as the political, social and economic situation, the
health conditions, the degree of internal security or aspects that by the
prevailing circumstances involve a certain risk to physical integrity or
psychic of the official and his family.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will assign the categories provided in this
article to destinations abroad, periodically updating said
assignment".

Article 117.- Officials who are assigned to fulfill functions in destinations
classified in Category C), except the Heads of Mission, will do so for a period of
three years, after which they will have the right to be transferred to another destination, not
included in that category, for the same period of time.

In the Resolution of the Executive Power by which the appointment to a
destination classified in Category C), it will be expressly provided that the transfer is for
the period of three years.

Page 92

92

SECTION 07

MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK, AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES

Article 118.- Section 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries" is the
competent authority to attend, implement, recover costs and agree on the
necessary measures aimed at regularizing the indebtedness, and to initiate the actions
relevant judicial proceedings against the debtors of the former Resource Management program
Natural and Irrigation Development (PRENADER).

Article 119.- Article 134 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10,
1987, by the following:

"ARTICLE 134.- The dependencies of Item 07" Ministry of Livestock,
Agriculture and Fishing ", without prejudice to the fulfillment of the private duties
assigned to the executing units to which they are hierarchical,
coordinate their actions with other dependencies subordinate to units
different executors, in any action of the Ministry, in the medium in which it is
required your contest. Likewise, they must provide the necessary collaboration to
executing units, which do not have dependencies in said environment and must
fulfill in the same, the activity that will be required to them ".

Article 120.- The Executive Power is empowered, through Section 07 "Ministry of
Livestock, Agriculture and Fishing ", to constitute a fund integrated with the real estate
detailed in Articles 50 of Law No. 19,438, of October 14, 2016, and 101 of the
Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017, as a separate capital allocation
and independent, managed by a professional trustee authorized by the Bank
Central del Uruguay, in order to dispose of said properties and manage the

Page 93

93

produced from the alienation, destined to carry out repairs or
remodeling of the properties affected by the Clause and the acquisition of new
real estate for the same.

The executing unit 001 "Directorate General of the Secretariat" of the aforementioned Ministry,
It will be empowered to give instructions to the trustee in relation to the administration of the fund.

Article 121.- Make it available to Subsection 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries",
to maintain a register of bank accounts, declared by individuals who have
credits that do not come from the provision of goods or services to the different units
executors of the Clause and who opt for the bank transfer modality for its collection, without
prejudice to the obligations established in Law No. 19,210, of April 29, 2014,
modifying and concordant.

Once the declaration provided for in this article has been made, by means of the
relevant documentation required by the Ministry, individuals will have the burden of
communicate any change to the declared data, in the form, conditions and through
the procedures that it will establish for such purposes.

The Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries will not be responsible for the damages
caused by the omission of communicating in a timely manner the modification of the data
declared.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 122.- Inciso 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries" is empowered to

Page 94

94

use the item authorized by article 361 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27,
2010, until the implementation of the process of reformulation of the structures
organizational and job positions of the Clause, in the manner determined by the
regulation.

The Executive Power, at the proposal of the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries and
with the prior and favorable report of the Remuneration and Occupational Analysis Commission
(CARO), will authorize its distribution.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 123.- Create in Section 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries",
executing unit 001 "Directorate General of the Secretariat", the National Program for
Promotion of Agricultural Awareness, with the following objectives:

A) Promote the formation of a culture of agriculture.

B) Promote responsible knowledge of citizens about the sector
agriculture and its impact on the economy, the environment and society.

C) Interact with public and private institutions.

D) Articulate communication and education.

Article 124.- Those who exercise the functions established in articles 275 and 297
of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, and must cease their duties due to

Page 95

95

end of the government period, they will remain in them until
appoint the new holders.

Article 125.- Inciso 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries" is empowered to
manage the area of ​land and improvements where the research base of the
National Directorate of Aquatic Resources located in the property registered with the
number 1,597, located in the tenth Cadastral Section of the Department of Rocha, in the
Coast of the Atlantic Ocean as long as it remains with that destination; in accordance with
the limitations and prohibitions applicable under the provisions of Article 8 of
Law No. 17,234, of February 22, 2000.

The remaining area will be administered by Section 14 "Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and Environment ", under the conditions established in
agreement between both Portfolios.

Article 126.- Substitute numeral 11) of article 77 of Law No. 19,175, of 20
December 2013, by the following:

"11) Failure to comply with the environmental conditions referred to in article 60
of this law ".
Article 127.- Add to article 77 of Law No. 19,175, of December 20,
2013, the following numeral:

"13) Any action or omission that causes damage or depredation of resources
living from the aquatic environment ".

Article 128.- Add to article 78 of Law No. 19,175, of December 20,

Page 96

96

2013, the following numerals:

"6) Carry out fishing or aquaculture activities without having the corresponding
permission or authorization.

7) Carry out fishing activities in an area other than the one indicated in the permit
fishing, in reserved or prohibited areas or in contravention of the regulations
current.

8) Market, transport or process hydrobiological products without having the
authorization for such purposes or without due sanitary control by the
DINARA.

9) Process hydrobiological resources from vessels that do not
have a fishing permit.

10) The storage of fishery products in sites not authorized by the
DINARA.

11) Modify cultivation systems, species, location or purpose of the
production without the prior approval of DINARA.

12) Omit or hide information from the competent authority in relation to fishing and
aquaculture.

13) The false information in the sworn statement made in the fishing parties ".

Page 97

97

Article 129.- Substitute number 1) of Article 177 of Law No. 19,149, of 24
October 2013, by the following:

"1) Rate of evaluation and registration, renewal and control of phytosanitary products
(pesticides), fertilizers, amendments and biological agents: 15,000 IU (fifteen thousand
indexed units).

Except for this fee to the Biological Control Agents (ACB).

The Executive Branch is empowered to exempt the payment of the evaluation and registration fee or
renewal of phytosanitary products, intended for use in minor crops,
setting the criteria to define these crops ".

Article 130.- Substitute literal A) of Article 3 of Law Nº 17,950, of 8 of
January 2006, by the following wording:

"A) Possess the title of Veterinary Professional or equivalent issued or recognized by
the University of the Republic and annual proof of the exercise of the profession
issued by the Retirement and Pension Fund for University Professionals.
Veterinary professionals, State officials, Autonomous Entities,
Decentralized Services and Departmental Governments that extend
certificates in the exercise of the functions inherent to their respective positions in
These institutions will be exempt from presenting the proof of exercise
of the profession, previously indicated ".

Article 131.- Add to Article 6 of Law No. 17.950, of January 8, 2006, the
following subsection:

Page 98

98

"Veterinarians accredited for clinical analysis laboratory activities,
They will not be able to process samples of animals owned by the holders,
co-owners, associates or administrators of the laboratory where they work
said activity ".

Article 132.- Make it available to Subsection 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries",
through executing unit 005 "General Directorate of Livestock Services", to create
a health certification system for the poultry and egg chain, including
hatcheries, poultry breeding establishments, production of
poultry for fattening and egg production, egg collection; of companies of
commercial brokering of poultry and eggs and poultry slaughter establishments.

For these purposes, companies must have a registration number of the
Livestock Inspection and Control Department (DICOSE), in the National System
of Livestock Information of the executing unit 001 "General Directorate of the Secretariat".

Article 133.- Substitute Article 131 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7,
2012, by the following wording:

"ARTICLE 131.- All slaughter establishments, industrializers,
tanks for cooling and freezing meat, products, by-products and derivatives
of bovine, ovine, swine, equine, poultry, rabbit, hare and animal species
small game, as well as all industrializing establishments and
deposits of products, dairy by-products and derivatives of milk and honey and
Products from the hive, destined for supply and export, must be
obligatorily registered and authorized from the hygienic point of view
sanitary and technological, by the executing unit 005 "General Directorate of
Livestock Services "of Inciso 07" Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and
Fishing".

Page 99

99

The General Directorate of Livestock Services is authorized to:

A) Provide preventive or temporary suspension, in case of supervening loss
o non-compliance with the requirements or hygienic sanitary conditions or
technological, required for the qualification of the establishments referred to in the
previous paragraph, as long as they do not comply with said requirements or conditions, without
detriment to the application of the legally established sanctions.

B) Suspend partially or totally the activity of authorized establishments
for export, in the event of a supervening absence of requirements demanded by
one or some of the destination markets for which they are
enabled, without prejudice to maintaining the activity for other permitted destinations ".

Article 134.- Authorize the executing unit 005 "General Directorate of Services
Cattlemen "from Item 07" Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries ", to be provided by the
temporary transfer of the officials of the Permanent Veterinary Inspection of the
Animal Industry Division, in order to fulfill its inspection tasks, within or
outside the department where they carry out their usual work and outside the place of
declared residence, by resolution based on strict service needs.

The official shall have the right to be provided with locomotion and per diem.
for corresponding food, in accordance with current regulations, those who
They will be borne by the refrigeration establishment of destination.

Article 135.- Inciso 07 "Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries" is empowered to
through executing unit 005 "General Directorate of Livestock Services" to proceed
to the immediate slaughter, after inspection, of the animals of the bovine, ovine,
swine or equine, of known or unknown owner, retained by the Police Headquarters

Page 100

100

of the Ministry of the Interior throughout the national territory, because it is on public roads,
within municipal landfills or garbage dumps; provided they were not withdrawn by their
holder within a maximum period of seventy-two hours after notification.

The owner of the animal retained in violation will be responsible for the expenses in which the
Administration has incurred for the concept of transfer, deposit, grazing and sacrifice for
slaughter of the reference animals, among others, being applicable, the provisions of the
Article 263 of Law No. 16,736, of January 5, 1996. This article shall be
applicable, without prejudice to the powers attributed to the Ministries of the Interior,
Transportation and Public Works and to the Departmental Governments.

The Executive Branch at the proposal of the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries,
will regulate this article, within one hundred and eighty days following the
promulgation of this law.

Repeal article 75 of the Rural Code, approved by Law No. 10,024, of 14
June 1941, and amendments.

Article 136.- The second paragraph of Article 8 of Law No. 16,105, of
January 23, 1990, by the following:

"Said National Board will be composed of nine honorary members who
They will last four years in their functions and will be appointed: one by the Ministry
of Livestock, Agriculture and Fishing, who will preside over it; one by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance; one for the Office of Planning and Budget; One for
the Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay; one by the Chamber of Industries
of Uruguay and four will be elected by the farmer producers. The members
appointed or elected, may not hold functions in the aforementioned Board for more than
two periods, not consecutive. Outgoing members will remain in their
functions until new members take over. "

Page 101

101

Article 137.- The General Tax Directorate and the Social Security Bank, to
request of the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries, they will inform if the total
nominal family income generated outside the farm, of natural persons
registered in the Registry of Family Producers created by article 311 of the Law
Nº 19,355, of December 19, 2015, comply with the requirements that allow access
to the condition of family producer.

For these sole purposes, the secret of the actions foreseen by
Article 47 of the Tax Code.

Officials from the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries, who intervene
in the corresponding procedures, they must keep secrecy regarding the information
to which they access in application of this article.

In the event of a violation of this rule, the provisions of the third paragraph shall apply.
of article 47 of the Tax Code.

SECTION 08

MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND MINING

Article 138.- Delete numbers 2) and 7) of Article 99 of Law No. 17.011,
of September 25, 1998, in the wording given by Article 395 of Law No. 18,719,
of December 27, 2010.

Page 102

102

Article 139.- Article 73 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25,
1998, by the following:

"ARTICLE 73.- Geographical indications,
appellations of origin and indications of origin ".

Article 140.- Article 74 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25,
1998, in the wording given by article 335, of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 74.- A geographical indication is understood to be one that identifies a
product or service as originating from a country, a region or a locality, when
certain quality, reputation or other characteristic of the same is attributable
fundamentally to its geographical origin.

An indication of origin is understood to be the use of a geographical name in a
product or service that identifies the place of extraction, production, manufacture or
provision of the same. These will enjoy protection without the need for registration.

The use of an indication of provenance does not preclude its use by others
locally-based suppliers provided it is a bona fide use and always
do not cause confusion ".

Article 141.- Article 75 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25,
1998, by the following:

Page 103

103

"ARTICLE 75.- Denomination of origin is understood as the geographical name
of a country, city, region or locality, which designates a product or service whose
qualities or characteristics are due exclusively or essentially to the environment
geographic, including natural and human factors ".

Article 142.- Article 76 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25,
1998, by the following:

"ARTICLE 76.- Create the records of geographical indications and
denominations of origin in the National Directorate of Industrial Property, without
detriment of the Registry in the orbit of the National Institute of Viticulture, regarding
to geographical indications and appellations of origin of producers
national ".

Article 143.- Article 77 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25,
1998, by the following:

"ARTICLE 77.- The use of a geographical indication, denomination of origin or
indication of provenance is limited to producers and providers of
services established in the geographic location in question.

The granting of geographical indications or appellations of origin,
corresponds to the competent body in the matter. In winemaking matters
national is the National Institute of Viticulture.

For geographical indications and appellations of origin, it will be required:
in addition, the fulfillment of quality requirements.

Page 104

104

The registration of a geographical indication or appellation of origin does not confer
its owner exclusive rights over those generic or descriptive terms
that integrate it, and will not prevent the use in good faith by third parties of said terms
generic or descriptive.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 79 of this law, all
use of geographical indications that constitutes an act of unfair competition or
that are confused with other registered or in the process of registration ".

Article 144.- Substitute article 78 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25,
1998, by the following:

"ARTICLE 78.- The geographical name that does not constitute an indication
geographical area, a designation of origin or an indication of provenance may
become a brand, as long as it does not mislead as to the true
birthplace".

Article 145.- Substitute Article 337 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 337.- The Executive Power is empowered, at the proposal of the Ministry of
Industry, Energy and Mining, with the advice of the National Directorate of the
Industrial Property, to grant exemptions, total or partial from taxes
established by Article 99 of Law No. 17.011, of September 25, 1998, and its
amendments and by Article 117 of Law No. 17,164, of September 2, 1999,
and its amendments, when the activities and services provided by said Directorate,

Page 105

105

in the field of distinctive signs, patents, geographical indications and
appellations of origin are supplied to other public bodies, to
institutions that have agreements with the same or in the case of programs
o projects of social actors promoted and / or subsidized by the
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining ".

Article 146.- Article 338 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 338.- The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining is authorized through
of the National Directorate of Industrial Property to reduce the rates for
services it provides, applying discounts of up to 90% (ninety percent)
about them to public institutions, small and medium-sized companies,
associations and groups of producers, cooperatives, inventors
independent and research centers, in order to promote national policy in
matter of development of industry, science, technology and innovation.

The Executive Power shall regulate this provision. "

Article 147.- The Audiovisual Communication Council created by article 66 of
Law No. 19,307, of December 29, 2014, is a decentralized body of the Power
Executive who will act with technical autonomy without prejudice to the power of certiorari of
this.

For the purposes of its operation, the Audiovisual Communication Council
It will link with the Executive Power through Section 08 "Ministry of Industry, Energy and
Mining".

Page 106

106

Reassign from Item 02 "Presidency of the Republic", the item created by
Article 114 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, to Section 08 "Ministry
of Industry, Energy and Mining ", executing unit 001" General Directorate of the Secretariat ",
program 320 "Strengthening the Productive Base of Goods and Services", object of the
expenditure 299,000 "Other non-personal services not included in the above", with the
objective of contributing to the financing of the expenses of the Communication Council
Audiovisual.

Article 148.- Believe in Section 08 "Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining",
executing unit 001 "General Directorate of the Secretariat", program 320 "Strengthening
of the Productive Base of Goods and Services ", a position of" President of the Council of
Audiovisual Communication "of particular trust; and four positions of" Member of the
Audiovisual Communication Council ", of particular trust, which will be appointed from
in accordance with the provisions of Article 74 of Law No. 19,307, of December 29,
2014.

The provisions of this article will be financed with credit from the objects of the
expense 095.005 "Fund to finance transitory functions" of Item 08 "Ministry of
Industry, Energy and Mining "and if necessary with the purpose of spending 092,000" Items
Globales to Distribuir "of the executing unit 010" National Directorate of
Telecommunications and Audiovisual Communication Services ".

This provision shall enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 149.- Incorporate to the list of officials of article 16 of the Law
No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012, to the President and the other members of the
Audiovisual Communication Council whose remuneration will be determined by applying the

Page 107

107

percentages 70% (seventy percent) and 60% (sixty percent), respectively, on
the nominal salary of a Senator of the Republic.

Repeal article 78 of Law No. 19,307, of December 29, 2014.

Article 150.- Authorized, as an exception to the general rule on the matter
for the Audiovisual Communication Council, and for the purposes of compliance with
functions, the commissioning of officials of the Central Administration to
perform tasks of direct assistance to the Board, at its express request and
based on reasons of need for services. Have a cap of up to ten
officials, subject to the corresponding controls. The ability to request these
passes will expire three years from the effective date of this law.

Said officials may not receive in the Ministry of Industry, Energy and
Mining any remuneration as a consequence of the commission pass.

SECTION 09

MINISTRY OF TOURISM

Article 151.- Create in Item 09 "Ministry of Tourism", executing unit 003
"National Tourism Directorate", program 323 "Value chains generating
employment and local productive development ", the operating project" Territorial Management
of Tourism ", which will be financed with the reallocation of budget credits from the
same executing unit.

Page 108

108

SECTION 10

MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION AND PUBLIC WORKS

Article 152.- In road public works concessions, when necessary
execute a greater volume of works than originally planned (works
complementary or modifications to those initially estimated) or new related works
not contained in the original contract, an agreement may be reached between the grantor and
concessionaire for its execution. Said agreement must comply with the provisions of the Text
Ordered of Accounting and Financial Administration of the State (TOCAF) and will be
subject to the prior intervention of the Court of Accounts.

To carry out additional works, the State may contribute resources in
partial or total form for the financing of the same, having to be rendered the
execution of the resources provided exclusively through the work certificates that
endorse the execution of works on behalf of the administration carried out by the
concessionaire, which must have the approval of the Control Body of the
concession established in the respective contract and its modifications.

This standard is applicable to the concessions in force at the date of the
promulgation of this law and the concessions that may be granted in the future.

Article 153.- The transposition of the credits belonging to
personal remuneration of the maintenance projects of the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works that are not executed within the fiscal year, towards the projects of
the National Directorate of Roads, the National Directorate of Hydrography and the Directorate

Page 109

109

National Topography, to be used within the exercise, exclusively for the
financing of the following programs and projects:

Item EU Program

No.

Project

10

003

362

750 Routes

10

003

462

754 Road Safety

10

004

363

757 Ports

10

004

363

755 Waterways

10

004

363

760 Hydraulic Works and Fluvial Materials

10

006

362

765 Expropriations

The projects and the respective amounts to be reinforced through this article, are
determined by the hierarch of the subsection, depending on the credit needs
existing and will be carried out with a prior and favorable report from the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the Office of Planning and Budget.

Article 154.- They are transformed into Section 10 "Ministry of Transportation and Works
Public "the vacant positions that are detailed in Table I in the following positions that
are indicated in Table II:

Page 110

110

Table I:
EU Quantity Scale Grade

Denomination

Serie

001

1

TO

9

Advisor IV

Dentist

001

1

TO

6

Advisor VII

Psychologist

001

1

R

9

Computer Programmer Analyst

001

1

B

6

Technician VI

Medicine

001

1

D

two

Specialist IX

Accounting

001

two

D

4

Specialist VII

Accounting

001

1

D

6

Specialist V

Tachydactylography

001

1

D

6

Specialist V

engineering

001

1

D

6

Specialist V

Architecture

001

1

D

8

Specialist III

Architecture

001

1

AND

3

Specialized officer

Trades

001

1

AND

two

Officer I

Trades

003

1

F

1

Auxiliary I

Services

003

1

TO

10

Head of Section

Civil engineer

003

1

TO

10

Head of Section

Mechanical engineer

003

1

B

6

Technician VI

Architect or Engineering

003

1

F

1

Auxiliary I

Services

004

two

C

3

Administrative I

Administrative

004

3

C

two

Administrative II

Administrative

004

1

D

3

Specialist VIII

Specialization

004

1

D

two

Specialist IX

Ing. Or Agrim.

004

1

AND

5

Pattern II

Trades

004

1

AND

5

Foreman III

Trades

004

3

AND

4

Foreman IV

Trades

Page 111

111

EU Quantity Scale Grade

Denomination

Serie

004

1

AND

3

Official

Trades

004

two

AND

3

Foreman V

Trades

004

1

AND

two

Operator I

Trades

004

3

AND

two

Officer I

Trades

004

1

AND

two

Operator I

Trades

004

9

AND

two

Officer I

Trades

004

1

AND

1

Specialized officer

Trades

004

1

AND

1

Specialized pawn

Trades

004

two

AND

1

Officer I

Trades

004

4

AND

1

Officer II

Trades

004

1

AND

1

Pawn

Trades

004

two

AND

1

Operator IV

Trades

005

1

TO

10

Head of section

Lawyer

005

two

TO

9

Advisor IV

Architect

005

1

B

6

Technician VI

Arq. Or Ing.

005

1

D

8

Specialist III

computing

005

1

C

two

Administrative II

Administrative

005

1

F

two

Manager II

Services

006

1

B

6

Technician VI

Tech. In Adm.

006

1

D

6

Specialist V

Inspection

006

1

C

3

Administrative I

Administrative

006

1

D

3

Specialist VIII

Microfilming

007

two

C

4

Sector boss

Administrative

007

two

C

3

Administrative I

Administrative

007

two

C

two

Administrative II

Administrative

Page 112

112

EU Quantity Scale Grade

Denomination

Serie

007

3

D

6

Specialist V

Inspection

007

1

D

5

Specialist VI

Manager Posts

007

3

D

4

Specialist VII

Specialization

007

1

D

3

Specialist VIII

Traffic control

007

two

D

3

Specialist VIII

Balances

007

1

D

3

Specialist VIII

Specialization

007

1

D

3

Specialist VIII

Shift manager

007

1

D

3

Specialist VIII

Specialization

007

1

D

two

Specialist IX

Balances

007

6

D

two

Specialist IX

Traffic control

007

6

D

1

Specialist X

Traffic control

007

1

AND

1

Operator II

Trades

007

1

F

4

Subintendent

Services

007

1

F

two

Manager II

Services

Table II:

EU

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

001

4

TO

4

Advisor IX

Professional

001

1

B

3

Technician IX

Specialist

001

two

D

1

Specialist X

Specialization

C

1

Administrative V Administrative

001

10

003

4

TO

4

Advisor IX

Professional

003

two

B

3

Technician IX

Specialist

TO

4

Advisor IX

Professional

004

13

Page 113

113

EU

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

004

1

B

3

Tech. In Adm.

Tech. In Adm.

004

1

B

3

Technician IX

Specialist

004

13

C

1

Administrative V Administrative

004

eleven

D

1

Specialist X

Specialization

005

two

TO

4

Advisor IX

Professional

005

8

D

1

Specialist X

Specialization

006

two

TO

4

Advisor IX

Professional

006

1

D

1

Specialist X

Specialization

006

1

C

1

Administrative V Administrative

007

3

TO

4

Advisor IX

Professional

007

1

B

3

Technician IX

Specialist

007

3. 4

C

1

Administrative V Administrative

The provisions of this article may not generate budgetary cost.

Article 155.- Riparian properties to rivers, streams and lagoons declared navigable
or floatable, or the Atlantic Ocean, are subject to the easement of dismantling or removal of
boats that are abandoned, sunk, semi-sunk or stranded,
or that their immobility affects river, lake and maritime operations or security or there is
risks of affecting the environment.

The procedure to be used for the constitution of the aforementioned easement will be
that established in Title IV, Chapter III, Section I of Decree-Law No. 14.859, of 15
December 1978 (Water Code).

Page 114

114

If the boats are abandoned, sunk,
semi-sunken or stranded linked to a shipyard or dry dock installed on the property
riparian, or with the owner of the property, will not have the right to compensation of kind
any for the imposition of the easement, having the pecuniary responsibility for the
expenses demanded by the dismantling or removal operations whose relationship approved by the
Ministry of Transportation and Public Works will constitute an executive title.

Article 156.- Article 236 of Law No. 16,320 of November 1,
1992, in the wording given by article 68 of Law No. 19,438, of October 14,
2016, by the following:

"ARTICLE 236.- Subsection 10" Ministry of Transportation and Public Works ", to
through its executing unit 004 "National Hydrography Directorate" and the
National Administration of Ports, have competence to intimate on the road
administrative mobilization of vessels located in the port area of
the ports, estates or dry docks under its jurisdiction and on any navigable waterway,
either in terrestrial or aquatic areas, that are in any of the
following conditions:

A) That they are sunken, semi-sunken or stranded.

B) That their immobility affects the operation or security of the port, river and / or
maritime or may affect the environment.

C) That their obligations to the National Directorate had not been satisfied
of Hydrography or with the National Ports Administration, according to
appropriate, for a term of three months.

Page 115

115

D) They lack the required insurance.

The summons will be notified to the owner, shipowner or representative, establishing
a period of ten calendar days for the mobilization or fulfillment of the
Obligations with the National Directorate of Hydrography or with the Administration
Nacional de Puertos, as appropriate, under warning of declaring the
situation of abandonment of the boat, operating in such case the transfer of
domain in favor of the State or the National Port Administration.

They will be jointly and severally liable for the aforementioned obligations.
previously those who have requested the corresponding services, the
owner, shipowner and representative.

The term provided in the summons has expired, without having been given
compliance with the intimation, by Resolution of the Ministry of Transport and Works
Public or of the Directory of the National Administration of Ports, it will be considered
the boat abandoned in favor of the State or the National Administration
of Ports as appropriate, without prejudice to financial responsibility for
the expenses demanded by the mobilization and related operations. The relationship
of said expenses, approved by the aforementioned Ministry or the Board of the
National Port Administration will constitute an executive title.

The Resolution will declare the abandonment verified, without prejudice to the
pecuniary responsibility already mentioned, as well as the loss of all
rights that exist in favor of third parties regarding the boat
abandoned, unless they appear to comply with the intimidation and assume the payment
of the corresponding expenses. The owner, the shipowner or the
representative, and will be published once in the Official Gazette. After

Page 116

116

within ten calendar days from the publication or notification, whatever has had
place in the last term, without interested parties having come forward to deduce their
rights, the corresponding transfer of ownership will be documented through
Notarial certificate that must list the results of the file
respective".

Article 157.- Section 10 "Ministry of Transportation and Public Works" is empowered to
hire suitable personnel for the crew of the vessels affected to the
raft services, dredging control, beaconing, bathymetric studies and operations
of beached and dumped from the Carmelo and Paso de los Toros dry docks, for up to
twenty-five people, under the modality of an employment contract under the provisions of
Article 54 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010.

Contracts may not have a term of more than twelve months.

The hiring of resident personnel will be prioritized in the area where the
service.

The contracted party will not acquire the quality or status of a public official, nor
right to stay.

The salary and the job category will be set according to the activity carried out
by the contractor, depending on the branch of activity.

Prior to the expiration of the term, the Ministry of Transport and Public Works may
for duly founded service reasons, terminate the contractual relationship in
at any time, with thirty days' notice, without generating the right to claim

Page 117

117

compensation of any kind by the contracted party.

The contracts will be exempted from the procedure of the System of
Recruitment and Selection of the National Civil Service Office and will be attended with
charge to Item 10 "Ministry of Transportation and Public Works", executing unit 004
"National Directorate of Hydrography", program 363 "Fluvial and maritime infrastructure",
Project 000 "Operation", not being able to generate additional budgetary cost.

Article 158.- Authorize the executing unit 005 "National Directorate of
Architecture ", belonging to Item 10" Ministry of Transportation and Public Works ", to
receive from the commissioning agencies, in merit of conducting studies,
blueprints and projects for the execution of public works of architecture, the
equivalent of up to 2% (two percent) of the budgeted value of the works by the
National Directorate of Architecture, including the corresponding taxes, both in the
modality of execution of public works contract as direct administration.

The funds obtained through said instrument will constitute Resources of
Special impact of which the National Directorate of Architecture will have in a
100% (one hundred percent), except for article 594 of Law No. 15.903, of 10
November 1987, and will be used to meet administrative expenses that could
Irrogate the technical tasks mentioned.

Article 159.- Section 10 "Ministry of Transportation and Public Works", through the
executing unit 006 "National Topography Directorate", may issue copies of the
plans registered in the National Archive of Measurement Plans, upon payment of
a rate no higher than 1 UR (an adjustable unit) for common processing and no higher than
3 UR (three adjustable units) for urgent procedures.

The product of the rate set forth in this article, once the
provided in Article 594 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10, 1987,

Page 118

118

will allocate to the Faculty of Engineering of the University of the Republic, for the promotion
of the registration of Surveying and academic support of said degree career.

Article 160.- The third paragraph of article 173 of Law No. 18,834, of 4
of November 2011, in the wording given by Article 109 of Law No. 19,535, of
September 25, 2017, by the following:

"The Executive Power will regulate this provision, determining the
budget credits, human, financial and material resources to reallocate
for its fulfillment ".

SECTION 11

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE

Article 161.- Article 112 of Law No. 18,437 of December 12,
2008, by the following:

"ARTICLE 112. (Coordination of the National Scholarship System) .- The Commission
National Scholarship, constituted in accordance with the provisions of article 115 of
Law No. 15,851, of December 24, 1986, and made up of a representative
of the Solidarity Fund, created by Law No. 16,524, of July 25, 1994, and
its amendments, and by a representative of the Technological University, created
by Law No. 19,043, of December 28, 2012, will approve requests for

Page 119

119

scholarships that the Departmental Coordinating Commissions of Education will
forward for your consideration.

The supervision will be carried out by said Commission, with the collaboration of the
Departmental Coordinating Commissions for Education, seeking
articulate scholarship and support systems for students, with the aim of achieving
greater rationality in management and greater impact on the objectives pursued
with scholarships ".

Article 162.- Provide for the realization of a "National Census of Centers of
Private Initial Education Regulated by the Ministry of Education and Culture ", which
will be carried out by the Ministry of Education and Culture, in whose registry the
registration of all private initial education centers regulated by this
Ministry.

The Ministry will establish the duration, the temporary period, in relation to the
regulation of operation, form of execution, census data and form of accreditation
register.

The deadline set by the Ministry for registration has expired, without having
Once verified, the authorization to operate the centers will be suspended,
until the regularization is carried out. After the late enrollment deadline without
Once the registration has taken place, the corresponding sanctions may be provided.

All Private Initial Education Centers regulated by the Ministry of
Education and Culture, must prove their registration in the aforementioned Census, in order to
carry out any type of procedure or management before the Public Administration.

Page 120

120

Article 163.- Exempt from the payment of the fee provided for in article 21 of the DecreeLaw No. 14,755, of January 5, 1978, to requests for legalization of documents
presented by the Ministry of Social Development and required by both nationals
in a situation of social vulnerability, such as foreigners who, being in the
same situation, they process their residence in the Republic and by students who
found within the framework of technical cooperation agreements, which favor the
training in strategic areas for the country, with a prior and favorable report from the unit
executor 002 "Directorate of Education", of Item 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture".

Article 164.- Believe in Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit
executor 002 "Directorate of Education", the positions detailed below:

Quantity
4

Denomination
Advisor XII

Serie

Grade Level

Professional

TO

04

Delete, in the same executing unit, the following vacant positions:

Quantity

Denomination

1

Technician IX

3

teacher

Serie

Scale

Technical

Grade

B

03

J

03

The cost difference between creation and elimination of charges, set forth in this
Article, will be financed with the budgetary credits of the object of expenditure 099.001
"Projected Game", from the same executing unit.

Page 121

121

Article 165.- Reassign from Item 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit
executor 002 "Directorate of Education", program 340 "Access to Education", at
Item 25 "National Public Education Administration", executing unit 005 "Council
of Training in Education ", program 607" Training in Education ", Project of
Operation 212 "Initial Training in Education", the budget credits with
charge to Financing 1.1 "General Income", corresponding to scholarships
called "Julio Castro", granted by said Ministry to Uruguayan citizens
Teaching career students of the Education Training Council.

The scholarship recipients will be selected according to their socioeconomic situation and
previous schooling and must work in public education for the same number of years
in which they used the scholarship.

Article 166.- Substitute Article 9 of Law No. 19,037, of December 28,
2012, by the following:

"ARTICLE 9.- Create the Council of Museums, as an advisory body
of the Ministry of Education and Culture on policy-making
museums of national scope, which will function within the scope of the
executor 003 "National Directorate of Culture", from Item 11 "Ministry of
Education and culture".

Article 167.- Create in Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit
executor 005 "Directorate of MEC Centers", program 280 "Cultural goods and services", the
position of particular trust of "Director of MEC Centers", whose remuneration will be
equivalent to that of the Executing Unit Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the
first paragraph of article 16 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012.

Page 122

122

The creation provided for in this article will be financed from the purpose of the
expense 095.002 "Fund for Temporary Public Law and Provisional Contracts", of
the executing unit 001 "General Directorate of the Secretariat".

Article 168.- Substitute Article 252 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24,
2013, by the following:

"ARTICLE 252.- The executing units 001 are empowered" General Directorate of
Secretariat ", 003" National Directorate of Culture "and 005" Directorate of MEC Centers "
of Inciso 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", to carry out artistic contracts
whose individual annual amount does not exceed the equivalent of the direct purchase. The
contracts made under this rule will not require a prior report
of the National Civil Service Office and will be financed by group 2
"Non-personal services" of each executing unit ".

Article 169.- Created in Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit
executor 007 "General Archive of the Nation", program 281 "Cultural Institutionality", the
position of "Executive Secretary" of the National Center of Musical Documentation Lauro
Ayestarán, which will be occupied by a citizen linked to the musicological discipline.

The position created in the previous paragraph will be of particular trust character and its
Remuneration shall be included in literal d), of Article 9 of Law No. 15,809, of 8
April 1986, and its amendments, being financed from the object of expenditure 095.002
"Fund for Temporary Public Law and Provisional Contracts", of the unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretariat", program 281 "Institutionality
Cultural ", Item 11" Ministry of Education and Culture ".

Article 170.- Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit

Page 123

123

executor 007 "General Archive of the Nation", to finance archival projects that
are presented by political parties.

The Executive Power will regulate the technical criteria related to the evaluation
of the projects, the submission and delivery deadlines and other aspects that
correspond.

Provide that calls made by executing unit 007 "File
General of the Nation ", from Item 11" Ministry of Education and Culture ", for the
presentation of archival projects of political parties and the trade union movement
Uruguayan, will be evaluated by an "Evaluation Committee", made up of:

A) A representative of the General Archive of the Nation.

B) A representative of the General Directorate of the National Library.

C) A representative of the National Directorate of Culture.

D) A representative of the Electoral Court.

E) A representative of the University of the Republic.

The Committee will evaluate and select the projects presented, recommending to the
Ministry of Education and Culture the amounts to be delivered, of which they must be paid
documented account.

Page 124

124

Set that access to the selected file will be guaranteed by the
publication of the "archival project" on the institutional website belonging to the party
corresponding politician, by virtue of the provisions of Law No. 18,381, of October 17
2008, and its amendments.

Article 171.- Be replaced, in the first paragraph of Article 28 of Law No. 18,046,
of October 24, 2006, in the wording given by Article 128 of Law No. 19,535,
of September 25, 2017, the destination granted to the departure scheduled for the
program 240 "Fundamental Research", executing unit 011 "Institute of
Clemente Stable Biological Research ", by the following:

"Hiring of teaching hours for research activities at three levels
and Post Doctoral; support technicians for teaching and research,
platforms, animal husbandry and administration, whose salaries are
determined by the scales established by the hierarch of the Inciso, at the proposal of the
Board of Directors of the executing unit; and full dedication regime for
current assistant investigators level D, grade 11 ".

Article 172.- Reassign themselves in executing unit 011 "Research Institute
Clemente Stable Biologicals ", program 240" Fundamental Research ", credits
budget of the object of expenditure 051.001 "Teaching hours", in order to finance the
creation of the following positions mentioned below:

Quantity

Denomination

Serie

Scale

Grade

3

Administrative VI

Administrative

C

01

7

Specialist VIII

Specialist

D

01

1

Officer VII

Trades

AND

01

7

Technician VII

Technical

B

03

Page 125

125

Quantity

Denomination

1

Serie

Professional XII

Scale

Lawyer

Grade

TO

04

In the designation of the positions created in the previous paragraph, the
Institute officials who have entered by competition.

The reallocation of credits will be carried out definitively once they have been made
the appointments in the vacant positions that are created, for the amount necessary to
finance them.

The personnel who, on the date on which the arranged reassignments must be made,
is performing functions financed with the credits to be reallocated, it will cease in the
referred functions.

The reassignments made under this article must count
with a favorable report from the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

Article 173.- The first paragraph of Article 416 of Law No. 19,355, of
December 19, 2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 416.- Become Subsection 11" Ministry of Education and
Culture ", executing unit 011" Clemente Biological Research Institute
Stable ", program 240" Fundamental Research ", Denomination and ranking
of the following charges:

Page 126

126

Charges to be transformed
Quantity

Transformed Charges

Esc. Degree Denomination

Serie

Esc. Degree Denomination

12

TO

16 Professional Chief Researcher

TO

16

eleven

D

13 Investigator

Assistant

TO

13

14

D

11 Investigator

Assistant

TO

eleven

Serie

Full Professor of

Professional

Investigation
Associate Professor

Professional

research
Associate Professor

Professional

research

Article 174.- They are transformed into Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture",
executing unit 011 "Clemente Stable Biological Research Institute", the
Name and rank of the following vacant positions that are detailed:

Charges to transform
Quantity

Transformed charges

Esc. Degree Denomination

Serie

Investigator

Esc. Degree

two

TO

16

Professional A

4

D

13 Assistant Researcher

TO

13

two

D

11 Research Assistant

TO

eleven

Boss

16

Denomination

Serie

Full Professor of
Professional

Investigation
Associate Professor of

Professional

Investigation
Adjunct Professor of

Professional

Investigation

The charges will be equated to those of the University of the Republic as indicated
Article 202 of Law No. 15.903, of November 10, 1987, which establishes the
teaching character of the researchers of the Institute of Biological Research
Clemente Stable and will maintain their character of total dedication.

Article 175.- Subsection 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit

Page 127

127

executor 012 "Directorate for the Development of Science and Knowledge",
program 281 "Cultural Institutionality", to finance the teaching activities of the
"Los Molinos" Observatory, with the reallocation of budget credits for the purpose of the
expenditure 051.001 "Teaching hours", of the executing unit 002 "Directorate of Education",
for an amount of up to $ 2,000,000 (two million Uruguayan pesos) plus Christmas bonus and
legal charges.

Article 176.- Reassign in Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit
executor 015 "General Directorate of the National Library", program 280 "Goods and
cultural services ", Financing 1.1" General Income ", of the object of expenditure 042.530
"Special compensation for night hours, work on non-working days" for the purpose of the
expense 042.510 "Special compensation for special functions", the sum of
$ 1,365,663 (one million three hundred sixty-five thousand six hundred sixty-three pesos
Uruguayans).

Article 177.- Believe in Section 11 "Ministry of Education and Culture", unit
executor 024 "National Audiovisual Communication Service", program 280 "Goods and
cultural services ", the charges detailed below:

Charges that are created:

Rank Quantity

Grade

Denomination

Serie

1

TO

10

Advisor VI

Lawyer

1

D

09

Head of Radio Production Section

Specialization

two

D

08

Head Section Shift Operators

Specialization

1

D

08

Head of Digitization Section

Specialization

1

D

08

Head of Radio Foreign Section

Specialization

Page 128

128

Rank Quantity

Grade

Denomination

Serie

Head of the Customer Service Section

Specialization

1

D

08

1

D

08

Head of Audio and Video Technician

Specialization

1

D

08

Head of Promotion Section

Specialization

1

D

08

Digital Graphic Chief

Specialization

1

C

08

Head of Section

Administrative

two

D

06

Artistic Recordings Operator Specialization

two

D

06

Graphic Design Operator

Specialization

two

D

06

Technician I Audio and Video

Specialization

two

D

05

Technician II Audio and Video

Specialization

1

D

04

Director's assistant

Specialization

two

D

04

Editors

Specialization

1

D

04

Digitization Operator

Specialization

1

D

04

Makeup

Specialization

3

D

03

Radio operator

Specialization

Client

The creations provided in the previous paragraph will be financed with the deletion
of the vacant positions, of the same subsection, program and executing unit, which are detailed below
continuation:

Charges that are suppressed:

Quantity

Scale

Grade

Denomination

Serie

1

D

09

Radiotechnical Chief

Specialization

1

D

08

Chief Press

Specialization

Page 129

129

Quantity

Scale

Grade

Denomination

Serie

1

D

08

Head of the Disco Section

Specialization

1

D

08

Head of the Roll Library Section

Specialization

1

D

08

Head of Booklet Section

Specialization

1

D

08

Head of Supplies Section

Specialization

1

C

07

Head of Section

Administrative

5

D

07

First-class radio technicians

Specialization

1

D

05

Rollotecario

Specialization

1

F

03

Auxiliary II

Service

1

TO

10

Advisor VI

Notary

1

F

04

Auxiliary I

Service

1

D

05

Swicher Chief

Specialization

1

D

06

Scenographer Director I

Specialization

1

D

06

1

AND

08

Head of Logistics

Trades

1

D

08

Head of Section Scenography

Specialization

1

D

08

1

AND

01

Electrician

Trades

1

D

01

Editor

Specialization

1

D

04

Commercial Collator

Specialization

1

D

04

Makeup Artist III

Specialization

1

D

04

Scenographer Director III

Specialization

Secretary Department
Programming

Head of Communication Section
Institutional

Specialization

Specialization

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will carry out the modifications of credits
budgetary requirements for compliance with the provisions of this article.

Page 130

130

Article 178.- Article 17 of Law No. 17.904 of October 7,
2005, by the following:

"ARTICLE 17.- 20% (twenty percent) of the advertising guidelines in
television and radio that contract, for any concept and under any modality, the
bodies of the Executive Power, Autonomous Entities and Decentralized Services,
will be agreed by the executing unit 024 "Communication Service
National Audiovisual "(SECAN), except advertising that is carried out in the media
of the outside.

Set as a deadline for the settlement of the accrued obligations the
following dates: March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31,
each year, setting for such purposes, a maximum period of forty-five days
working for the payment of the same ".

Article 179.- Substitute numeral 2), of the third paragraph, of article 124 of the Law
Nº 19,535, of September 25, 2017, by the following:

"2) Program 280" Cultural goods and services ", executing unit 024" Service of
National Audiovisual Communication ", Financing 1.1" General Rents ", the
sum of $ 2,275,585 (two million two hundred seventy-five thousand five hundred
eighty-five Uruguayan pesos), of the object of expenditure 299,000 "Other Services
Non-Personal Not Included in the Above ", for the purpose of expenditure 051,000
"Subsistence allowance".

Article 180.- Provide that the inscribable facts and acts, referring to the civil status
of the people, they will be registered in a single act with the content and formalities provided

Page 131

131

in current legislation.

In the event of more than one registration certificate, and of having identical content
substantial determinant of marital status referred to the act or fact that is registered, is
will cancel the one that does not correspond.

When one of the registrations has been made ex officio, priority will be given to the
made based on the declaration of interested parties.

The nullity will be processed through the administrative procedure, which may begin to
instance of an interested party before the General Directorate of Civil Status Registry, or
office, by the Directorate itself, which must resolve in a well-founded manner.

In cases of duplication of registration not expressly provided for in this
article, you must go to the competent court.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 181.- Replace Article 255 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24,
2013, by the following:

"ARTICLE 255.- Create, a single rate for the issuance of documents
relating to the Civil Status records by the digital management system of the
General Directorate of the Civil Status Registry, with an aliquot of 0.125 UR

Page 132

132

(zero with one hundred and twenty-five resettable units), for each document, the one that
is declared incorporated into article 611 of Law No. 17.296, of February 21,
2001.

The Executive Power is authorized to order the unification of the aliquots of the
fees, in the different modes of issuance of documents related to
the records of the Civil Status Registry, in the aliquot referred to in paragraph
previous".
Article 182.- The Executive Power is authorized to provide an aliquot 0 (zero), for
the documents related to the records of the Civil Status Registry that are available to
through an interoperability system with state agencies and for the expedition
digital of the documents corresponding to the testimonies of civil status records,
according to the regulations established in this regard.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 183.- The second paragraph of Article 528 of Law No. 18,719, of
December 27, 2010, in the wording given by Article 194 of Law No. 18,834, of
November 4, 2011, by the following:

"Said item will be received by the General Directorate of the State Registry
Civil, who will distribute it among the officials referred to in the previous paragraph, who
actually perform the marriage ceremonies, and in proportion to the
held by each of them, being the only one that the Officials may receive
acting for such concepts ".

Page 133

133

This provision will enter into force as of the promulgation of this law.

Article 184.- Article 546 of Law No. 19,355 of December 19,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 546.- While the regulation of article 154 of Law No. 13,737,
of January 9, 1969, does not cover the entire national territory and part of
The Civil Status Registry function continues to be in charge of the Justices of the Peace of the
the interior of the country belonging to the Judicial Power, the amount
equivalent to the collection obtained by the development of this function by
of the Justices of the Peace. The amount transferred will be used to finance the
operating expenses and investments required by the aforementioned service. On
If a Digital Registry system is established, the system of
books and sending the information to the corresponding agencies in the form
that the Executive Power regulates ".

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 185.- Provide that the "per diem" regime provided for by Article 241 of the
Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013, for "Number Academics of the
National Academy of Letters ", will be compatible with the perception of other income
from public funds, as well as retirement income or pensions.

Article 186.- The items established in literal A) of Article 7 of the Law
No. 18,284, of May 16, 2008 and Article 417 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19
2015, destined to the Film and Audiovisual Development Fund, will be
expressed in units indexed (UI) to the value of the UI in force as of January 1, 2018 and
they will be adjusted annually to the value of the UI as of January 1 of each year.

Page 134

134

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 187.- Replace articles 10, 39 and 58 of Law No. 1,430, of 11 of
February 1879, by the following:

"ARTICLE 10.- Relatives may be witnesses for the registration of acts and
registrable facts related to the Civil Status, should be preferred and presented by
the interested. The General Directorate of Civil Status Registry will determine, by
founded resolution, cases in which the appearance of witnesses and
your number, as long as it is no longer required by law. "

"ARTICLE 39.- In the birth seats it must be specified:

1) Place and date of completion of the Minutes.

2º) The hour, day, month, year, place of birth and number of Certificate of
Born Alive.

3º) Name, surname, sex and identity card number if assigned,
or proof of not having it assigned in your case, of the person to register.

4th) Names, surnames, nationality and identity document of the parents.

Page 135

135

If exceptionally the registration of birth is requested without a Certificate of
Born Alive, the regulations will establish the procedure for their registration.

In the case of multiple pregnancy births, one entry will be made per born,
following the order of numbering, according to the priority of the birth.

If the newborn had or had had one or more siblings of the same
name, the order of filiation will be established. "

"ARTICLE 58.- The death entry must establish, as soon as it is
possible to obtain:

1st) Place and date of the act.

2nd) Place, date and time of death.

3rd) Number of medical death certificate.

4th) Name, surname, nationality, identity document of the deceased and
civic credential as appropriate.

5º) Identification of who declares the death ".

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the

Page 136

136

present law.

Article 188.- Replace the numerals 1, 2 and 7 of article 98 of the Civil Code,
approved by Law No. 16,603, of October 19, 1994, by the following:

"1st. Place, date and time of completion of the act, name, age, nationality,
identity document, marital status and address of the contracting parties.

2nd. The name and surname of the parents.

7th. Name, surname and identity document of the witnesses ".

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

SECTION 12

MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH

Article 189.- The Ministry of Public Health may proceed to register ex officio, since
the sole effects of their entry into the country, of the drugs or therapeutic devices
destined to the fulfillment of health plans or programs approved by said portfolio,
that, with the prior approval of the Executive Power, acquire from international
of which the Republic is a part.

Page 137

137

Prior to use, the drug or therapeutic device must be
analyzed by the Commission for the Quality Control of Medicines or the Division
Sanitary Evaluation, as appropriate.

Article 190.- Article 10 of Law No. 16,343, of December 24,
1992, in the wording given by article 305 of Law No. 17,930, of December 19,
2005, by the following:

"ARTICLE 10.- Create the Technical Advisory Commission on Medicine Highly
Specialized, which will work in the Ministry of Public Health.

The Technical Advisory Commission will be made up of a representative (head and
alternate) of the Ministry of Public Health, who will preside over it; a representative
(holder and alternate) of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of the Republic; a
representative (head and alternate) of the National Resource Fund, and a fourth
member (titular and alternate) who will be appointed by the Ministry of Public Health,
at the proposal of the national medical corps. In the event of a tie, the President will have
double vote.

The Commission will advise the General Directorate of Health of the Ministry of Health
Public in the technical-assistance aspects related to the incorporation or
divestiture of medical technology from the National Integrated Health System.
Likewise, it may also advise the Honorary Administrative Commission of the
National Resource Fund in the technical-assistance aspects of your
competence.

Page 138

138

The Technical Advisory Commission will collect the opinions it deems necessary or
convenient for the fulfillment of their duties.

The members, holders and alternates, of the Technical Advisory Commission must
sign a declaration of conflict of interest ".

Article 191.- They are exempt from the prohibition established by article 32 of
Law No. 11,923, of March 27, 1953, amending and concordant, the charges
medical professionals who work in the emergency system in Item 12
"Ministry of Public Health", executing unit 104 "National Institute of Donation and
Cell, Tissue and Organ Transplantation ", under the guard system provided for in the
Article 88 of Law No. 19,438, of October 14, 2016. In such cases the time limit
it will be eighty hours a week of work in the set of activities.

Said positions will have a special work regime with a weekly charge not
less than thirty hours.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 192.- The second paragraph of Article 456 of Law No. 19,355, of
December 19, 2015, by the following:

"In all cases, the limit of eighty hours per week of work will be applied.
Said contracts will have a special work regime with a load
weekly hours not less than thirty hours ".

Page 139

139

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 193.- Subsection fifth of literal D) of article 18 of the Law be replaced.
Nº 18,335, of August 15, 2008, by the following:

"The medical record is the property of the patient, it will be reserved and they can only
access to it those responsible for medical care and staff
administrative related to these, the patient or, where appropriate, the family and the
Ministry of Public Health when it considers it pertinent. It may also be
requested directly from the health provider by the Public Ministry when
deal with the medical history of a crime victim whose investigation has
under your direction, provided that you previously obtain the consent of that
or, in his case of the family, and the sole effects of the criminal action ".

Article 194.- In order to guarantee the right to the protection of health and
access to integrated health service networks, in accordance with the provisions
by Law No. 18,211, of December 5, 2007, service providers
health must be incorporated into the National Electronic Medical Record System.

People will be incorporated into this System through the registration of
your information from the health service provider entity. In the treatment
of the registered information, the reserve principle established in the
Law No. 18,331, of August 11, 2008, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 302
of the Penal Code.

Anyone, at any time, may object to access to their information

Page 140

140

clinic through the National Electronic Health Record Platform, manifestation
which will be revocable. This opposition will prevent access to clinical information, except in
the legally foreseen exceptions.

This article will enter into force as of the promulgation of this law.

SECTION 13

MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL SECURITY

Article 195.- It is authorized in Section 13 "Ministry of Labor and Social Security",
executing unit 001 "General Secretariat Directorate" an annual item of $ 2,034,584
(two million thirty-four thousand five hundred eighty-four Uruguayan pesos), plus
Christmas bonus and legal charges, in the object of expenditure 042.520 "Special compensation for
meet specific conditions ", for the payment of special compensation
equivalent to 25% (twenty-five percent) of the remuneration subject to montepío,
excluding variable items, seniority premium, social benefits,
compensation for tasks of greater responsibility provided by article 5 of the Law
Nº 18,996, of November 7, 2012, and the personal compensation that is absorbed with
promotions of object of expenditure 042.610 "Personal Compensation. It is absorbed", at
professional civil servants belonging to the A ladder of Subsection 13 "Ministry of
Labor and Social Security ", that provide effective functions in the Planning and
Accounting Financial Management or in the Legal Advisory Division of the executing unit 001
"General Directorate of the Secretariat" and that they do not receive the special compensation provided
by articles 291 of Law No. 16,226, of October 29, 1991, 216 of the Law
No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012, and 469 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015.

Page 141

141

The compensation provided for in the first paragraph will be financed with the credits
budgets associated with the charges that are suppressed, according to the following detail:

Subsection Executing Unit Rank Grade Denomination

Serie

13

01

B

10

Technician II

Attorney

13

01

B

08

Technician I

13

01

D

05

Specialist

library

13

01

F

04

Auxiliary I

Services

Relations
Labor

The basis for calculating the compensation referred to in this article will remain
determined by the budget items in force on the date of promulgation of the
this law, receiving only the increases that are generally available
for public officials of the Central Administration.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 196.- Create in Section 13 "Ministry of Labor and Social Security",
executing unit 003 "National Employment Directorate", program 500 "Employment Policies
Employment ", one position of Advisor, Professional Series, level A, grade 14.

The creation provided in the previous paragraph will be financed with the budget credit
resulting from the suppression of a position of Specialist VIII, Specialization Series,
Level D, grade 1, of the executing unit 003 "National Employment Directorate",
Program 500 "Employment Policies", and the reallocation of budget credits
associated with the object of expenditure 095.005 "Fund to finance transitory functions and
driving ", in the sum of $ 219,885 (two hundred nineteen thousand eight hundred and eighty

Page 142

142

five Uruguayan pesos) per year, including Christmas bonus and legal charges and the object of the
expense 099,001 "Projected Item", in the amount of $ 10,824 (ten thousand eight hundred
twenty-four Uruguayan pesos) annually, including Christmas bonus and legal charges.

Article 197.- They are transformed into Section 13 "Ministry of Labor and Security
Social ", executing unit 004" National Directorate for Coordination in the Interior ", four
Administrative V positions, Administrative Series, level C, grade 2, in four positions
Manager of the Interior Office, Administrative Series, level C, grade 10.

The transformations arranged will not generate budgetary cost, being reallocated,
destined to complete the financing of the same, the sum of $ 489,996
(four hundred eighty-nine thousand nine hundred ninety-six Uruguayan pesos) annually,
including Christmas bonus and legal charges, of the object of expenditure 095.005 "Fund to finance
transitory and driving functions ", of the same executing unit.

Article 198.- Become Section 13 "Ministry of Labor and Security
Social ", executing unit 007" General Inspection of Labor and Social Security ",
the following vacant positions:

Quantity Ladder Grade Denomination

Serie

1

TO

13 Advisor I

Occupational Physician or Toxicologist

1

TO

12 Advisor II

Notary

1

TO

4 Advisor X

Lawyer

1

C

1 Administrative VI Administrative

in the following positions:

Page 143

143

Quantity

Rank Grade Denomination

Serie

1

TO

10 Advisor IV

Lawyer

1

TO

10 Advisor IV

Lawyer

The transformed positions will be incorporated into the structure of the Legal Division of
the executing unit 007 "General Inspection of Labor and Social Security", of
according to the regime, conditions and monthly nominal remuneration for all concepts
corresponding to scale A, grade 10 at 2018 values, established by article 468
of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015. These remunerations will receive
only the salary adjustments granted by the Executive Power for the Administration
Central.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 199.- Article 155 of Law No. 19,535, of September 25,
2017, by the following:

"ARTICLE 155.- Authorize Section 13" Ministry of Labor and Security
Social ", to be transformed into executing unit 007" General Labor Inspectorate
and Social Security "the vacant positions of Inspector IV, Series" Conditions
General Labor ", level B, grade 07, generated as a result of
promotion competitions, in vacant positions of Inspector III, Series
"General Working Conditions" or "Environmental Working Conditions",
Level B, Grade 08, until February 29, 2020 or until the completion of the
number of positions stipulated in the Collective Agreement of September 18,
2015 between the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Association of

Page 144

144

Uruguayan Labor Inspectors (AITU) and the Confederation of Organizations
of State Officials (COFE).

The transformations arranged will be financed with the budget credit
resulting from the suppression of a rank D position, grade 8, denomination
"Inspector III", series "General Conditions of Work", of the unit
executor 007 "General Inspection of Labor and Social Security".

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 200.- The positions of Inspector of Item 13 "Ministry of Labor and
Social Security ", executing unit 007" General Inspection of Labor and
Social Security ", will integrate the B" Professional Technician "ladder.

The officials who, as of the effective date of this law, perform
Inspector functions in Item 13 "Ministry of Labor and Social Security", unit
executor 007 "General Inspection of Labor and Social Security", will be
incorporated to the B "Professional Technician" ladder, maintaining the grade and remuneration, without
require that they comply with the corresponding requirements of ladder B, being able to
leveling programs should be arranged, if necessary.

Are included in the provisions of the preceding paragraph, those officials
that they enter the positions of inspector in the executing unit 007 "General Inspection of the
Work and Social Security ", through the promotion competitions that may have been
initiated prior to the entry into force of this law.

Page 145

145

The exclusive dedication regime for officials who perform tasks
inspections established by Article 240 of Law No. 18,172, of August 31, 2007,
It will be applied to the situations included in the preceding paragraphs in the form and
conditions set forth in said standard.

Officials who become Inspectors, from the effective date of the
present law, in subsection 13 "Ministry of Labor and Social Security", unit
executor 007 "General Inspection of Labor and Social Security", must comply
with the conditions set forth in Article 30 of Law No. 15,809, of April 8, 1986,
in the wording given by Article 4 of Law No. 15,851, of December 24, 1986,
Except for those officials covered by the provisions of the third paragraph of the
this article.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

SECTION 14

HOUSING MINISTRY, ORDERING
TERRITORIAL AND ENVIRONMENT

Article 201.- Assign yourself to Item 14 "Ministry of Housing, Territorial Ordering
and Environment ", executing unit 002" National Housing Directorate ", destined for the
financing of housing cooperatives and other housing solutions, in the
521 program "Urban Housing Rehabilitation and Consolidation Program",
Project 717 "New Urban Housing Solutions", the one-time items that

Page 146

146

are detailed below: for the 2018 fiscal year, $ 900,000,000 (nine hundred million
Uruguayan pesos) in Financing 1.5 "National Housing Fund", for the
fiscal year 2019, $ 90,000,000 (ninety million Uruguayan pesos) in the
Financing 2.1 "External Debt" and $ 210,000,000 (two hundred and ten million
Uruguayan pesos) in Financing 1.5 "National Housing Fund".

They will be in addition to the items resulting from the application of the provisions of the
Article 605 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010, the credits assigned in the
preceding paragraph, in Financing 1.5 "National Housing Fund", as well as the
incremental items granted on an exceptional basis in 2018, in order to
attend relocations in various cities of the country as a result of the floods.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 202.- For the acquisition of real estate for housing
belonging to the public or private domain of the State, Autonomous Entities, Services
Decentralized or Departmental Governments, by the Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and Environment, in exercise of its duties, will be dispensed with
of the certificates provided for in articles 662 to 668 of Law No. 16,170, of 28
December 1990.

Article 203.- Subsection 14 "Ministry of Housing, Ordinance
Territorial and Environment "to be financed by the National Housing Fund, created
by article 81 of Law No. 13,728, of December 17, 1968, in the wording given
by Article 1 of Law No. 16,237, of January 2, 1992, the advice or
architectural or legal assistance, provided to people who are in a situation of
socio-economic vulnerability, for access to housing, through institutions
public or private or civil associations.

Page 147

147

Article 204.- The second paragraph of Article 79 of Law No. 18,651, of
February 19, 2010, by the following:

"The Departmental Governments will establish the order of priority for the development of
relevant works ".

Article 205.- Except for compliance with the notarial control of payment of the Tax
of Real Estate Contribution created by Article 1 of Law No. 9,328, of March 24
of 1934, and the Tax on Primary Education provided for in article 641 of the Law
No. 15,809, of April 8, 1986, in the wording given by article 77 of the Law
Nº 19,535, of September 25, 2017, in the deeds of the Co-ownership Regulation
and in those of real estate disposals granted by the Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and Environment as the owner, or the Agency
Nacional de Vivienda as fiduciary owner, in those cases where the
beneficiary is in possession of the property, according to accreditation issued by
said portfolio or the National Housing Agency, as appropriate.

Article 206.- Provide that the measures provided for in Article 37 of the Law
No. 19,580, of December 22, 2017, exclusively comprise the Public System
of Housing.

Article 207.- Incorporate as literal K), to article 81 of Law No. 13,728, of 17
December 1968, in the wording given by Article 1 of Law No. 16,237, of 2
January 1992, the following:

Page 148

148

"K) The sums received for the sale of state-owned real estate
administered by the Ministry of Housing, Territorial Planning and Environment
Environment, affected to the Portfolio of Properties of Social Interest (CIVIS) ".

Article 208.- Authorize Section 14 "Ministry of Housing, Ordinance
Territorial and Environment "to order employers and social security organizations
social security, the withholding on assets and liabilities of the beneficiaries of its
Rental Guarantee, for rental guarantee service or other debt
contracted within the framework of the signed lease.

The withholdings arranged under this article will be included in the order
of priority foreseen in literal A) of article 1 of Law Nº 17,829, of September 18
of 2004, in the wording given by article 32 of Law No. 19,210, of April 29,
2014.

Article 209.- Incorporate into article 38 of Law No. 18,308, of June 18, 2008,
as a fifth paragraph, the following:

"Exceptionally, for duly founded reasons and provided that
the necessary equipment and free spaces are secured in the
sector, it may be replaced by cession of land in another place different from the sector to
to intervene".

Article 210.- Article 43 of Law No. 18,308, of June 18, 2008, is replaced
by the following:

Page 149

149

"ARTICLE 43. (Regime of subdivisions in urban, suburban and
soil with the potentially transformable attribute) .- They may not be authorized
subdivisions in urban, suburban or land with the attribute of
potentially transformable, provided that they generate surfaces for public use
destined for transit, without having met the conditions
determined by article 38 of this law, and must include the proof
of its fulfillment in the respective plane.

For the assignments of lots or real estate of the authorized subdivisions
subsequent to this law, in which the transfer provided for in the
cited article 38, in the sector to intervene, as well as the right to participation
of the greatest values ​of the territorial action of the public powers, in addition to
areas intended for public use, the transfer of ownership operates fully
right for its representation in the respective planes ".

Article 211.- Subsection 14 "Ministry of Housing, Ordinance
Territorial and Environment ", to transfer the budgetary funds requested by the
Departmental Governments in order to exercise the right of first refusal provided in the
Article 66 of Law No. 18,308, of June 18, 2008.

The granting of the funds will be made through the National Housing Fund
created by Article 81 of Law No. 13,728, of December 17, 1968, in the wording
given by Article 1 of Law No. 16,237, of January 2, 1992, and will be conditioned,
to the subsequent transfer of ownership of the property to the Ministry of Housing, Ordinance
Territorial and Environment for the portfolio of properties for Housing of
Social interest.

Article 212.- Replace the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 48 of the Law.
Nº 17,292, of January 25, 2001, in the wording given by numeral 3) of article 83
of Law No. 18,308, of June 18, 2008, and Article 282 of Law No. 19,149, of 24

Page 150

150

October 2013, by the following:

"In urban and suburban categories soils, for residential performances,
residential tourism or similar, the area comprised between the components of
the plot of public circulation, may not exceed a maximum of 10,000 (ten thousand)
square meter. This restriction does not apply to blockages
approved prior to the entry into force of Law No. 18,308, of 18
June 2008. The maximum area referred may be increased up to 100%
(one hundred percent) more, depending on the territorial structure and provided that
ensure the continuity of the public circulation network and the free accessibility to
current public spaces and those that are created simultaneously with the
act of approval of the subdivision.

Without prejudice to what is established in the previous paragraph, in soils category
suburban, when established by the Departmental Guidelines, Plans
Premises, Partial Plans or Integrated Action Programs foreseen in the
Articles 16, 17, 19, 20 and 21 of Law No. 18,308, of June 18, 2008,
may admit larger surfaces for the areas between the
components of the fabric of public circulation, depending on the structure
adopted territory and tourist use as the main destination, provided that
ensure compliance with the requirements established in the previous paragraph ".

Article 213.- Replace Article 11 of Law No. 16,466, of January 19,
1994, by the following:

"ARTICLE 11.- The owners of the activities, constructions or works
included in the provisions of article 6 of this law, as well as the
professionals in charge of its execution, direction or operation, will be
jointly and severally liable for penalties and compensation for damages
caused by the realization of those that have not obtained the

Page 151

151

corresponding environmental authorization, as provided in this law and its
regulations, as well as the departure from the conditions established in
the same or in the antecedents that have given merit to its granting ".

Article 214.- The Executive Power is empowered, through the executing unit 004
"National Directorate of the Environment", from Item 14 "Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and Environment ", to establish foundations, by itself or
jointly with other public or private entities, in accordance with the Law
Nº 17,163, of September 1, 1999, in order to support the management of the areas
protected natural areas: Esteros de Farrapos and islands of the Uruguay River, Cabo Polonio, Valle del
Lunarejo, Santa Lucía wetlands and the Eastern region, providing opportunities for
environmental education and research, as well as to cooperate and implement aspects
materials of the administration of these areas.

The Ministry of Housing, Land Management and Environment, always
will have a majority in the decisions that are adopted in the foundations that are
constitute.

For such purposes, funds and movable property may be transferred as a contribution, as well as
how to integrate the board of directors of each foundation.

Those who serve in the National Directorate of the Environment may not
receive an economic benefit for any concept from the foundations that are authorized
in this standard.

Article 215.- Substitute Article 20 of Law Nº 17.283, of November 28,
2000, by the following:

Page 152

152

"ARTICLE 20. (Chemical Substances) .- It is in the general interest to protect the
environment against any damage that may arise from the use and management of
chemical substances, including within them the basic elements,
compounds, natural complexes and formulations, as well as goods and
articles that contain them, especially those that are considered toxic or
dangerous.

The Ministry of Housing, Land Management and Environment will determine
the applicable conditions for the protection of the environment, production,
import, export, transport, packaging, labeling, storage,
distribution, commercialization, use and final disposal regarding those
chemical substances that have not been regulated by virtue of the duties
sectoral assigned to other national bodies.

Said bodies shall incorporate the necessary conditions into their regulations
for the protection of the environment from the consequences derived from such
substances, in coordination with the Ministry of Housing, Planning
Territorial and Environment.

In any case, the Ministry of Housing, Territorial and Environment
Environment may dictate complementary provisions that ensure levels
adequate protection of the environment against the adverse effects derived from
normal use, accidents or waste that could be generated or derived
of chemicals, where appropriate, in consultation with specialists in
The matter".

Article 216.- Substitute article 22 of Law Nº 17.283, of November 28,
2000, by the following:

Page 153

153

"ARTICLE 22. (Biological diversity) .- It is of general interest the conservation and
sustainable use of biological diversity, as well as access to resources
genetics and the sharing of the benefits derived from their use, such as
a fundamental part of the national environmental policy and for the purposes of
implementation and application of the Convention on Biological Diversity (1992),
approved by Law No. 16,408 of August 27, 1993.

The Ministry of Housing, Land Management and Environment will establish
measures for the identification, monitoring and conservation of biodiversity,
will ensure the sustainability of the use of its components and
coordinate with sufficient powers the tasks and functions of other
public and private entities in matters of conservation and use of species and
their habitats, as well as in relation to compliance and surveillance measures
of the use of genetic resources, derivatives and knowledge
traditional partners, in accordance with the approved Nagoya Protocol
by Law No. 19,227, of June 24, 2014.

Said Ministry may determine the conditions for access to resources
genetic, derivatives and associated traditional knowledge, located in the
areas subject to the jurisdiction of the Republic, as well as for the participation
in the benefits of its use. Likewise, it will sanction offenders, even for
its use in contravention of the legal regime of access of the country of origin, when
this is part of the Nagoya Protocol.

Genetic resources are excluded from the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
human and plant genetic resources reached by Annex I of the Treaty
Conference on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and
Agriculture, approved by Law No. 17,942, of January 4, 2006, provided that
are used for food or agriculture ".

Page 154

154

Article 217.- The name of Chapter II, Title V, of the Code of
Waters approved by Decree-Law No. 14,859, of December 15, 1978, by the
following:

"CHAPTER II - ON THE PROTECTION OF LAGOONS, BATHROOMS AND AREAS
SWALLOWS AND LANDSCAPES ".

Article 218.- Replace Article 156 of the Water Code approved by the
Decree-Law No. 14,859, of December 15, 1978, by the following:

"ARTICLE 156.- The conservation, protection,
restoration, recomposition and rational and sustainable use of the lagoons, baths and
swampy and muddy areas.

For the desiccation, drainage and comprehensive improvement of flooded areas or
floodplains, to avoid the degradation of the watersheds and to defend the
people and property against floods, water shocks and avenues, the
The competent ministry shall prepare general projects by zones, which
approved in accordance with the national and regional programs to which it refers
numeral 1) of article 3 and the principles enshrined in the Constitution.

The works and corresponding works carried out in those areas by
public or private entities must adhere to the approved projects. "

Article 219.- Substitute article 159 of the Water Code, approved by the

Page 155

155

Decree-Law No. 14,859, of December 15, 1978, by the following:

"ARTICLE 159.- Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous articles, the
owner of a marshy or muddy land may drain it by its
account, after obtaining the corresponding environmental authorizations. Yes
the flooded or swampy area extended over the adjoining properties or
close to several owners, they may agree to carry out the works in
common. In this case, and if nothing else is agreed, the expenses will be shared
proportionally to the benefit that the works or works produced to each property.

The desiccation, drainage or other similar works in those lands are prohibited
swampy or muddy, bathed or lagoons, which are declared by the
Executive Branch as wetlands of environmental importance, in consideration of
its extension, location or ecosystem relevance ".

Article 220.- Article 161 of the Water Code, approved by the
Decree-Law No. 14,859, of December 15, 1978, by the following:

"ARTICLE 161.- The granting by any public body of
authorizations, permits, qualifications or similar, which leads to drying
or to drainage or that includes other similar works in lagoons, baths or areas
swampy or puddled, not declared as important wetlands
according to the provisions of article 159 of this Code, nor subject to
environmental authorization may not be carried out without necessarily having obtained
the opinion of the National Environmental Directorate, in the case that
appropriate to adopt any of the measures provided for in article 14 of the Law
Nº 17,283, of November 28, 2000.

Page 156

156

The National Directorate for the Environment must be issued in a well-founded manner ".

SECTION 15

MINISTRY OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Article 221.- Substitute literal J), of Article 9 of Law Nº 17,866, of 21 of
March 2005, by the following:

"J) The regulation, promotion, follow-up and monitoring of the activities of the
State entities that act in matters of youth, women, older adults,
disability, Afro-descent and sexual diversity as appropriate ".

Article 222.- Substitute article 526 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015, by the following:

"ARTICLE 526.- Subsection 15" Ministry of Social Development "is authorized to
incorporate public officials who, as of February 28, 2015, were
were providing services on a commission basis in
dependencies of said Secretary of State, whatever the regime
protection of which the pass has been provided, with a minimum of three years of
antiquity.

Page 157

157

The incorporated officials, under the protection of this article, will hold positions
vacancies, being able to transform those already existing in the subsection, provided that no
generate budgetary cost.

In the case of officials belonging to the Central Administration, you may
opt for their incorporation under the regime established by article 58
of Law No. 19,121, of August 20, 2013 ".

Article 223. (Transpositions of payment of night hours) .- It is authorized to Subsection 15
"Ministry of Social Development", to transfer the credit of the objects of expenditure with which
The contracts established in articles 523 to 525 of the Law are attended
Nº 19,355, of December 19, 2015, destined to finance the payment of hours
nights of the people hired under these rules, who carry out from
of your hiring.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
This law and will be applicable to night hours from
year 2018 inclusive.

Article 224.- Increase in Section 15 "Ministry of Social Development", unit
executor 001 "General Directorate of the Secretariat", program 403 "National System
Integrated Care - Social Protection ", charged to Financing 1.1" Income
General ", the sum of $ 170,000,000 (one hundred and seventy million Uruguayan pesos), with
destined to finance operating expenses of the National Integrated Care System.

The subsection will communicate to the General Accounting Office of the Nation the distribution of the
item assigned in this article.

Page 158

158

Article 225.- Create, in Section 15 "Ministry of Social Development", the "Registry
National Care ", which will function within the scope of the National Secretariat of
Care, in order to articulate, coordinate, consolidate, expand and supervise the
services, programs, benefits and natural and legal persons reached by the
National Integrated Care System created by Law No. 19,353, of December 27,
November 2015.

The Executive Power will regulate its scope and operation, in accordance with the

Legal and regulatory provisions in force regarding Data Protection
Personal.

Article 226.- Incorporate into article 17 of Law No. 19,353, of November 27,
2015, the following literal:

"K) Organize, direct, supervise and keep the National Registry of Care".

Article 227.- It is established that the position of "National Director of Social Economy and
Labor Integration ", created by the first paragraph of article 532 of Law No. 19,355, of
December 19, 2015, will have a remuneration equivalent to that provided for in paragraph C)
of Article 9 of Law No. 15,809, of April 8, 1986, and its amendments, which are
financed with the reallocation of budgetary credits of Section 15 "Ministry of
Social development".

The differences that arise from adjusting the remuneration provided in the Subsection
above, with respect to the one in force on the date of adaptation, will be transferred to the
expense 095.005 "Fund to finance transitory and driving functions".

Page 159

159

Article 228.- It will be the competence of the Directorate of Sociocultural Promotion, in
coordination with other state agencies at the central and departmental level, the
elaboration of plans that promote equal opportunities taking as
purpose of non-discrimination and the substantive guarantee of the human rights of
ethnic-racial, Afro-descendant and sexual diversity populations.

Article 229.- Provide that Advisory Councils made up of the
Central Administration Bodies, Departmental Governments, Administration
National of Public Education, University of the Republic and civil society, with the
commission of advising and mainstreaming the perspective of sexual diversity, ethnic-racial and
Afro-descendants in public policies.

Article 230.- Repeal literal A) of Article 5 of Law No. 18,240, of 27 December.
December 2007.

Article 231.- Substitute literal B) of Article 5 of Law Nº 18,240, of 27 of
December 2007, by the following:

"B) Having remained unemployed in the country for a
period not less than two years, immediately prior to the start date of
every registration process. It is considered that up to 150 wages registered in
that period constitute seasonal jobs or temporary jobs that are not
disable enrollment ".

Article 232.- The Social Security Bank must implement that the information
provided by literals B) and C) of article 5 and A) and B) of article 6 of the Law
Nº 18,240, of December 27, 2007, the latter in the wording given by the article

Page 160

160

303 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013, is available at the time of the
registration of applicants to participate in the Uruguay Works Program.

Article 233.- Repeal literal B) of Article 4 of Law No. 18,874, of 23 December.
December 2011, in the wording given by Article 3 of Law No. 19,417, of December 15,
June 2016.

Article 234.- Replace Article 13 of Law No. 18,874, of December 23,
2011, by the following:

"ARTICLE 13.- Without prejudice to the exceptions to the obligation to document
provided by Article 44 of Decree No. 597/988, of September 21, 1988,
in the wording given by article 1 of Decree No. 388/992, of August 17,
1992, the subjects referred to in this law, duly registered and in
activity, they must issue official proof of sale of goods or provision of
services whenever they carry out any of these commercial operations ".

Article 235.- Increase, within the framework of what is established in Law No. 19,580, of
December 22, 2017, "Law of Violence against Women Based on Gender", from
of the 2019 financial year, in the subsections, executing units and programs that are detailed, the
following items:

In Section 04 "Ministry of the Interior", executing unit 001 "Secretariat of the
Ministry of the Interior ", program 460" Prevention and repression of crime ", Project 121
"Gender equality", object of expenditure 259.002 "Electronic devices M Interior", for
finance the use of electronic devices (anklets), the sum of $ 25,000,000
(twenty-five million Uruguayan pesos).

Page 161

161

In Section 14 "Ministry of Housing, Land Management and Environment",
executing unit 002 "National Housing Directorate", Financing 1.5 "National Fund
of Housing ", program 523" National Policy of Social Interest Housing Rentals ",
Project 307 "National Policy for Social Interest Housing Rentals", object of the
expense 299,000 "Other non-personal services not included in the above", for the purposes of
grant subsidies to deal with situations related to the "Law of Violence against
Women Based on Gender ", the sum of $ 20,000,000 (twenty million pesos
Uruguayans). This increase will be in addition to the items resulting from the application of
the provisions of Article 605 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010.

In Section 15 "Ministry of Social Development", executing unit 002 "Directorate of
Social Development ", program 400" Cross-cutting policies of social development ",
Project 121 "Gender Equality", object of expenditure 554,000 "On Social Assistance", for
strengthening care for victims of gender-based violence in the interior
of the country, the sum of $ 30,000,000 (thirty million Uruguayan pesos).

Assign yourself, within the framework of the same law, in Section 02 "Presidency of the
Republic ", executing unit 001" Presidency of the Republic and Dependent Units ",
program 481 "Government policy", Project 121 "Gender equality", object of the
expense 299,000 "Other non-personal services not included in the above", with destination
to carry out public good campaigns on gender issues, the sum of $ 5,000,000
(five million Uruguayan pesos).

Page 162

162

SECTION V

ARTICLE 220 BODIES OF THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC
SECTION 16

POWER OF ATTORNEY

Article 236.- Add to Article 9 of Law No. 17,514, of July 2, 2002, the
following subsection:

"The Supreme Court of Justice may order the use of action protocols
expert who will regulate, for the purposes of detection and qualification of situations of
domestic violence. The courts may order its use urgently,
prior to the adoption of the measures referred to in the following article ".

Article 237.- In the Venues where the Registration System is implemented
of Hearings (Audire) in audio or video in the field of the Judicial Power, for the registration and
documentation of the proceedings at the hearing in addition to the minutes that will be drawn up and issued
on paper, the only content of which will be the mentions that will be indicated in the
following articles, said hearing will be recorded in audio or video from its
start to finish without interruption in the recording during the development of the same.

Article 238.- The succinct relationship of what was done in the hearing as content of the
Minutes issued on paper will contain, in addition to the decrees, resolutions or

Page 163

163

Judgments issued therein, which will be transcribed in their entirety, the following
mentions: type of audience concerned; place and date it is carved and the
file to which it corresponds; individualizing data of the participants and the
proof of the absence of those who should or could have been present, indicating
the cause of the absence if known; that the record of the hearing is done in your
all in the Audience Registration System (Audire); start and end time;
statement of the activities carried out in it and those records that the law
Impose for each specific case or that the headquarters decide to consign.

Article 239.- The content of the document on paper will be that established in the
preceding article, not having to transcribe statements or allegations of the
parties or statements of witnesses, experts or other acts performed with the exception of
decrees, resolutions or sentences.

Article 240.- The recording of audio or video will begin together with the start of
the audience. For the purposes of recording the activities carried out in the course of the
audience, the corresponding audio tracks will be marked, as provided by the
Magistrate. For a better use of the Registration System of
Audiences (Audire), it is suggested to mark the clues corresponding to the interventions
of the parties authorized by the Magistrate, the decrees, resolutions or sentences that
are issued as well as the documents, actions or effects that are exhibited and the beginning of the
statement of each witness or expert; which must be identified when making use of the
word thus facilitating the understanding of the audio record.

At the end of the same, the Magistrate must indicate that the
hearing, at which point the audio recording will cease. Prior to the withdrawal of the
parties of the hearing, it will proceed in their presence to verify the quality of the
Audio. In the event that defects are noticed that make the expressed in
hearing, it will proceed to verify if what is registered in the device referred to in the article
Next, it allows to ensure the correct registration of the act in all its parts. In case of
It is not possible either, the affected sections will be reconstructed,

Page 164

164

leaving a record of it. The parties will have the burden of leaving the evidence that
deem pertinent.

Once the hearing is concluded and the control referred to in the previous paragraphs has been carried out, the
Audio or video will be entered into the Multimatter Court Management System (SGJM) of
Headquarters within a maximum period of twenty-four hours.

Article 241.- Simultaneously with the beginning of the hearing, the
operation of the recording on the equipment provided for contingencies, which must be
available for this purpose. It corresponds to the acting Magistrate, under his responsibility,
control that such extreme is fulfilled. In case of technical defects in the audio record
carried out by the Audience Registration System (Audire), this will be replaced by the
registered in the contingency system, and in such case this will be the one that will be entered into the
management system.

Article 242.- In order to avoid sound interferences and while the System works
Audience Registry (Audire), it is forbidden to keep cell phones turned on in the
Courtroom unless they remain in airplane mode. It should be recorded instead
visible from the headquarters such situation, as well as the use of the Audire System.

The parties must adopt the pertinent precautionary measures in order to avoid
have your private conversations recorded on the audio system.

Article 243.- It will be issued to the parties, at their cost and in the support that they must
provide for this purpose, a copy of the recorded audio, until the record of
audio or video through the remote file consultation system. The expedition of
Said copy must be made at the end of the hearing except for reasons of force majeure.
duly justified that prevent it, which will be recorded in the record. In that

Page 165

165

In this case, the copy must be issued as soon as possible, leaving a record of the moment
that remains available to the parties.

Article 244.- The record of hearings through the System of Registration of
Audiences (Audire) enunciated in the preceding articles has the same efficacy
legal and probative value than their equivalents in those venues where they have not yet been
has implemented such a system.

Article 245.- Subsection 16 "Judicial Power" is authorized to sign an Agreement with the
Association of Judicial Officials of Uruguay, by which it undertakes to transfer
budgetary funds to partially attend the operation of the nursery
that the Association administers in the city of Montevideo, as long as it provides
service to judicial officials.

The aforementioned transfers will be financed with the budget of expenses of
operation assigned to the Judicial Power by budgetary laws, not exceeding the
4,140 UR (four thousand one hundred and forty adjustable units) annually.

Likewise, it may authorize up to ten judicial officials of the V levels.
"Administrative" and VI "Auxiliary" who go on to provide functions in the aforementioned nursery,
keeping the remuneration in charge of the Judicial Power.

The Supreme Court of Justice shall issue the regulations corresponding to the
Agreement.

Page 166

166

Article 246.- Assign to Subsection 16 "Judicial Power" an additional item in expenses
of operation of $ 1,500,000 (one million five hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos),
Financing 1.1 "General Income", destined to the dental service that is contracted
for the attention of judicial officials in the interior of the country.

SECTION 18

ELECTORAL COURT

Article 247.- Subsection 18 "Electoral Court" is authorized to resolve the extension of the
subrogations that would have been provided under article 27 of Law No. 16,320, 1st
of November 1992, and its regulations, when they must be extended beyond the deadline
of eighteen months, for reasons based on the absence of the holder of the position and the
impossibility of providing it by the promotion rules, as long as the situation that
gave rise to surrogacy.

The compensations that originate in the extension or extensions foreseen in the subsection
above, will be financed through the redistribution of budget credits from the
group 0 "Personal Services" of Section 18 "Electoral Court".

Page 167

167

SECTION 25

NATIONAL PUBLIC EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION

Article 248.- Assign it in Section 25 "National Education Administration
Public ", executing unit 001" Central Board of Directors ", program 601" Administration
of Education and Management of Transversal Policies ", charged to Funding 1.1
"General Income", an item of $ 1,942,000,000 (one thousand nine hundred forty-two
million Uruguayan pesos) destined to the payment of personal salaries.

Include in the projected increase, the increase of 3.5% (three and a half percent) of
the compensated unit of full-time teachers and the base positions that
They charge the compensated unit of the agricultural schools of the Council of Technical Education
Professional. If necessary, contact the National Education Administration
Public to complement the financing required to comply with the provisions
in this subsection, charged to the absence fund.

Also, be empowered to the "National Public Education Administration" to allocate
up to $ 63,000,000 (sixty-three million Uruguayan pesos) with the objective of
increase in half an hour the payment of assigned teachers, assistant coaches
and pedagogical guidance teachers, the Council of Secondary Education and the
Council of Professional Technical Education. This item will be financed from the
allocation established in the first paragraph of this article, being able
This financing should be complemented in the first place, charged to the absence fund and
If this is insufficient, the "National Public Education Administration" is empowered to
reallocate operating expense credits to group 0 in the amount of up to
$ 63,000,000 (sixty-three million Uruguayan pesos) in financing Rents
General.

Page 168

168

Article 249.- Assign to Subsection 25 "National Public Education Administration",
executing unit 001 "Central Directive Council", program 601 "Administration of the
Education and Management of Transversal Policies ", Financing 1.1" General Revenues ", a
amount of $ 105,000,000 (one hundred and five million Uruguayan pesos), destined for the
hiring of personnel, who, as of the date of promulgation of this law,
perform as "Service Assistant", hired by the Development Commissions
School.

The hiring will be conditioned to the favorable report of the respective
addresses of schools, prioritizing seniority in the performance of
said function and up to the limit of the available budget credit.

Of the credit increase provided for in this article, a total amount of
$ 25,000,000 (twenty-five million Uruguayan pesos), will be financed with the decrease
of credit of group 0 "Personal Remuneration", of Subsection 02 "Presidency of the
República ", for an amount of $ 15,000,000 (fifteen million Uruguayan pesos), and
Item 05 "Ministry of Economy and Finance", executing units 002 "Accounting
General de la Nación "and 001" Directorate General of the Secretariat ", for amounts of
$ 8,000,000 (eight million Uruguayan pesos) and $ 2,000,000 (two million pesos
Uruguayans) respectively.

The Presidency of the Republic and the Ministry of Economy and Finance shall,
prior favorable report from the National Civil Service Office and the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, determine the objects of expenditure to be reduced from group 0 "Remuneration
Personal ", as of May 31, 2019. Once the term established in the foregoing has expired,
the Ministry of Economy and Finance be empowered to suppress the budget credits that
they do not compose the endowment of the positions, until reaching the amount to abate.

Article 250.- Substitute Article 2 of Law Nº 17.230, of January 7, 2000,
by the following:

Page 169

169

"ARTICLE 2.- Establish the education system in work areas such as
regular mechanism of curricular training of regulated students of the
Council for Secondary Education and the Technical Education subsystem
Professional of the National Public Education Administration. The present
This provision will also be applicable to regulated students of the institutes
private technical professional education that are duly authorized ".

Article 251- Replace Article 6 of Law Nº 17.230, of January 7, 2000,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 6.- Each internship will also be completed for a maximum period
of twelve months, in each school year, in public and private entities, national
and international, whose line of business is linked to the nature of the studies
each student is studying, and that they are up to date in the payments of the system
of social security ".

Article 252.- Substitute Article 9 of Law Nº 17.230, of January 7, 2000,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 9.- The students who carry out the internship and the teachers
Accompanying persons must be duly registered as such by the authority
educational, before the offices of the General Labor Inspectorate and the
Social Security, with expression of the authorized period in each case ".

Article 253.- Substitute Article 10 of Law Nº 17.230, of January 7, 2000,
by the following:

Page 170

170

"ARTICLE 10.- The students who develop the internship may be
accompanied by their teachers whenever the corresponding company
expressly authorize, all without prejudice to the full validity of the
Guidance, supervision and evaluation powers in charge of the authority
educational".

Article 254.- Substitute Article 11 of Law No. 17.230, of January 7, 2000,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 11.- The Central Directive Council of the National Administration of
Public Education will determine, by four conforming votes, in which others of
its decentralized services, as well as abroad, may be applicable
the mechanisms of education in work areas referred to in the articles

above, as well as the modalities of unpaid internships that
consider it convenient to establish ".
Article 255.- Reassign, in Section 25 "National Education Administration
Public ", from investments to group 0" Personal Services ", the sum of $ 200,000,000
(two hundred million Uruguayan pesos), in order to contribute to the financing of
personal services associated with new educational spaces.

Authorize Section 25 "National Public Education Administration" to use the
"Absence Fund" for the financing of personal services associated with
new educational spaces.

Page 171

171

SECTION 26

UNIVERSITY OF THE REPUBLIC

Article 256.- Assign them in Section 26 "University of the Republic", unit
executor 050 "Central Unit", program 347 "Academic Program", charged to the
Financing 1.1 "General Income", an item of $ 430,000,000 (four hundred thirty
million of Uruguayan pesos), destined to the payment of personal salaries.

Article 257. (Communication of workers' activity registrations to the Banco de
Social Security) .- The University of the Republic will communicate the registration of its personnel to
the Affiliation Management Office of the Social Security Bank, within a period of seventy
and two business hours from the date of the effective entry of the worker.

Article 258. (Communication of workers' cancellation of activity to the Banco de
Social Security) .- The University of the Republic will communicate the dismissals of its personnel to
the Affiliation Management Office of the Social Security Bank, within twenty
business days counting from the date of the worker's discharge.

Article 259. (Communication of rectifications in the declaration nominated to the Bank of
Social Security) .- The University of the Republic will communicate the modifications of the
data of its personnel to the Social Security Bank retroactively, within the period of
sixty days.

Article 260.- Reassign the item established in article 115 of the Law
Nº 19,355, of December 19, 2015, of Item 02 "Presidency of the Republic",
executing unit 011 "National Sports Secretariat", Financing 1.1 "Rents

Page 172

172

General ", to Item 26" University of the Republic ", executing unit 001" Offices
Central and Dependent Schools of the Rectorate ", in Financing 1.1" Income
General ", destined for the Higher Institute of Physical Education (ISEF).

The subsection will communicate to the General Accounting Office of the Nation the distribution of the
budget allocation between personal salaries, operating expenses and
investments.

SECTION 27

INSTITUTE OF CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS OF URUGUAY

Article 261.- Subsection 27 "Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay" be authorized.
to carry out the transformations of vacant positions, according to the needs that
requires the service, following a report from the National Civil Service Office, provided that
This does not imply an increase in budget credit, which will be communicated to the Accounting Office
General of the Nation, reporting to the General Assembly and the Court of Accounts.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 262.- Subsection 27 "Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay", at
transform the positions held by those officials who perform functions
other than those of the position they hold and have authorized the change of function due to
Board resolution.

Page 173

173

Transformations must meet the following requirements:

A) Prove to have performed satisfactorily, in the opinion of the immediate hierarch
the tasks of the ladder to which it is intended to access, for at least
the twelve months prior to the request.

B) Prove conclusively to have obtained the educational credits and others
requirements to access the rank requested, from the moment
who had begun to perform the tasks of the ladder to which
intends to access.

The Directory of the Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay will determine if the
transformation of the position requested is necessary for the management of the Institution and in that
In this case, the respective positions may be transformed by assigning them the last grade of the ladder,
as long as you have budget credit available.

Said transformation will be financed if necessary, charged to the credits
authorized in the subsection, in group 0 "Personal Services". In no case may
decrease the remuneration level of officials.

Once the transformation has been carried out, the difference that exists between the
official in the previous position and that of the position to which he accedes, will be assigned as a
temporary personal compensation, which will be absorbed in future increases by
changes in the salary table, promotions, rank increase of the official and
compensation or permanent items, whatever their financing, which
are awarded in the future. Said personal compensation will carry all the increases that the
Executive Power provides for public officials.

Page 174

174

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 263.- The promotions of the officials of Section 27 "Institute of the Child and
Uruguayan Teenager "will be carried out by means of a contest of merits and antecedents or
opposition and merits and will be governed by the provisions contained in this article.

In the cases of Driving charges, the contests will always be by opposition and
merits.

The Board of the organization will make a call to which the
Budgeted officials of the Subsection belonging to any ladder, series and
degree, as long as they have the profile and requirements of the position to be provided, in order to
fill promotion vacancies. If the contest is deserted, the aforementioned vacancy
may be provided through the entry procedure provided by article 197 of the Law
No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017.

The Board of Directors may provide in a single call the calls for competition for
promotion and entry, being enabled the opening by the entry procedure
only in case the contest is deserted due to the promotion procedure.

The Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay will regulate this article with
the advice of the National Civil Service Office.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation

Page 175

175

of this law.

Article 264.- Subsection 27 "Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay" be authorized.
(INAU) to carry out the following simplification and categorization of the expenditure objects of the
group 0 "Personal Services", associated with teacher salaries, according to
what emerges from the following table:

Purpose of the Expenditure
011,000

012,000

014,000

021,000

022,000

Code and Description

Grade Special Position Personal Incentive

Basic salary of charges

X

Increase due to longer hours
X

permanent
Maximum compensation to degree

X

Basic salary for functions
X

hired
Increase due to longer hours

X

permanent

024,000

Maximum compensation to degree

041.006

Premium for permanence in office

X

042.001

Frozen offsets

X

042,014

042,032

042,034

042,038

X

Compensation for permanence at
X

order
Salary increase for activity

X

Complementary remuneration for
X

functions other than the position
Temporary personal compensation, is

X

absorbs with ascent

042,040

Direct assistance to the minor

042,064

Percentage monthly compensation

042,087

Performance incentive

X
X
X

Page 176

176

Purpose of the Expenditure

Code and Description

Grade Special Position Personal Incentive

Special compensation for complying
042,520

X
Specific conditions

042,710

Incentive for presenteeism

X

Incentive for performance, dedication,
042,720

X
and / or productivity

047.001

By matching ranks

X

047.003

Food item without contributions

X

048.007

Differential percentage of increase

X

Decree item salary increase
048.009

X
No. 203/92
Salary increase from

048,017

X
05/01/2003 Decree No. 191/03

048,018

Complement for not reaching minimum

X

048,023

Salary recovery

X

048,026

Salary recovery January 2007

X

048,028

Salary recovery January 2008

X

048,031

Salary recovery January 2009

X

048,032

Salary recovery January 2010

X

As of the approval of the regulation by the INAU Board of Directors,
all legal and regulatory norms that oppose the provisions of this
Article referring to the simplification and categorization of the objects of expenditure of the
grade category, will not be applicable to the determination of the remuneration of
the educational officials of the organization. Such simplification and categorization may not
generate budgetary cost, nor decrease in the remuneration received by teachers.

Article 265.- Increase in Subsection 27 "Institute of the Child and Adolescent of the

Page 177

177

Uruguay ", program 400" Cross-cutting policies of social development ", Funding 1.1
"General Income", the budget credit of group 0 "Personal Services", with
destined to the strengthening of the structure of positions and functions, for a total amount of
$ 121,432,200 (one hundred twenty-one million four hundred thirty-two thousand two hundred pesos
Uruguayans), including Christmas bonus and legal charges.

Article 266.- Subsection 27 "Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay", at
reallocate the following budget appropriations:

A) In program 400 "Cross-cutting policies of social development", Project 000
"General", objects of expenditure 111,000 "Food for people" and 152,000
"Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Products", for the purpose of expenditure 289,006
"Household benefits by 24-hour agreement", up to an amount equivalent to
60,000 UR (sixty thousand resettable units).

B) In program 354 "Integrated National Care System - Training and
Services ", Project 131" CAIF Early Childhood ", of the object of expenditure 198,000
"Spare Parts and Accessories", for the purpose of expenditure 289,001 "Benefits for
CAIF-Partial Agreements ", up to an amount of $ 37,000,000 (thirty-seven million
Uruguayan pesos).

The credits reassigned in the previous literals, as well as those provided in the
Article 181 of Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017, will be expressed in
resettable units.

Page 178

178

SECTION 29

ADMINISTRATION OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES

Article 267.- Assign, in Section 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
State ", executing unit 068" State Health Services Administration ",
program 440 "Comprehensive Health Care", in group 0 "Personal Services",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", in 2018, an amount of $ 12,500,000
(twelve million five hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos) including bonus and legal charges, to
effects of financing the creation of positions from the promulgation of this law, and
increase in fiscal year 2019 by $ 37,500,000 (thirty-seven million five hundred thousand
Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges, in order to finance the expenditure
annual of the positions created in 2018.

Article 268.- Substitute literals A), B) and C) of the first paragraph of Article 202
of Law No. 19,535, of September 25, 2017, by the following:

"A) To group 0" Personal Services ", up to $ 400,000,000 (four hundred million
Uruguayan pesos), destined to finance the creation of charges, complements and
salary adjustments, for the conformation of assistance services and
support, in order to directly provide services that as of the date of the
promulgation of this law are contracted with third parties. It may be used for
process for adjusting the remuneration of the agency's medical staff
up to 33% (thirty-three percent) of the reassigned item.

B) Group 3 "Investments", up to $ 100,000,000 (one hundred million pesos
Uruguayans), destined to finance the needs of movable and
properties required by the State Health Services Administration,
within the framework of the projects referred to in the preceding paragraph ".

Page 179

179

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 269.- Subsection 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
Status ", to reassign operating expense credits to group 0" Services
Personal ", for up to $ 100,000,000 (one hundred million Uruguayan pesos), destined for
finance the formation of specialized teams in the functions that the
State Health Services Administration determines, provided that the same
imply a reduction in costs produced by external contracting, and the payment of
Substitutions resulting from sick leave of the officials of the Section.

The reassignment must have a prior and favorable report from the Ministry of
Economy and Finance.

Authorize the Ministry of Economy and Finance to change the Source of
Funding 1.2 "Resources with Special Affectation" to the Funding Source 1.1
"General Income", credit reallocations made in application of this
Article, the Subsection having to deposit to General Revenues the amount equivalent to the change
of funding source made.

The reassignments authorized in this regulation will be permanent,
can be done exclusively during the validity of the National Budget of
Salaries, Expenses and Investments - Period 2015-2019.

Article 270.- Assign to Subsection 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
State ", executing unit 068" Administration of State Health Services ",

Page 180

180

program 440 "Comprehensive Health Care", group 0 "Personal Services",
Financing 1.1 "General Income", an item of $ 20,000,000 (twenty million
Uruguayan pesos) as of fiscal year 2019, including Christmas bonus and legal charges, with
destination to complete the financing corresponding to the differences in the charges
of the charges created under the first paragraph of article 717 of the Law
Nº 18,719, of December 27, 2010, in the wording given by article 285 of the Law
No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012, and by Article 201 of Law No. 19,535, of November 25,
September 2017.

Article 271.- The first paragraph of Article 201 of Law No. 19,535, of
September 25, 2017, by the following:

"ARTICLE 201.- Included in the authorization provided by Article 717 of the
Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010, in the wording given by the
Article 285 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012, contracting
carried out prior to June 30, 2018, by the Support Commission of the
executing unit 068 "Administration of State Health Services" and the
Honorary Commission of the Board of the Psychopath ".

Article 272.- Believe in Section 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
State ", executing unit 068" State Health Services Administration ", a
function of General Manager and four functions of Regional Director, whose holders will be
appointed directly by the Board of Directors and will cease when it so decides.

In the event that the persons designated to carry out said functions
had the quality of public officials, will be included in the regime
provided for in Article 21 of Law No. 17,930, of December 19, 2005.

Page 181

181

The remuneration of the functions created by this article will be established by the
Directory of the State Health Services Administration and will be attended with
charge to the budget credits of the agency.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 273.- Create in Section 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
State ", as of the promulgation of this law, a contractual regime of" High
Hospital Conduction "which will be accessed by competition, to provide services of
personal character, in the management function of the Hospital Center, Hospital or Network of
Primary Care, for a period of two years, extendable up to two more times for
annual periods.

In the first place, a call will be made, in order to evaluate the
budgeted or contracted officials who meet the exclusive requirements,
provided they have held uninterrupted functions for at least two years
in the body.

The subsection is empowered to make a public and open call, in the case that is
The aforementioned contracting procedure has been abandoned. The assignment of functions in this case,
does not create legally invocable rights or expectations to access a position
budgetary.

Once the selection has been made, a management commitment must be signed to
develop in the competitive function, in attention to the guidelines, policies and strategies
defined and aligned with the organization's strategic plan.

Page 182

182

The official who ceases in the exercise of the function, will return to perform in his / her
budgetary charge, ceasing to perceive the difference for the function performed.

The expenditures resulting from the provisions of this rule will be financed with the
agency credits.

Article 274.- Replace Article 279 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7,
2012, by the following:

"ARTICLE 279.- Join the health professionals of Item 29
"Administration of State Health Services", understood as such as
those people who perform technical functions inherent to the
levels A and B, directly linked to human health care,
to the regime of accumulation of charges established in article 107 of the
Decree-Law No. 14,985, of December 28, 1979 ".

Article 275.- Except for the prohibition provided by article 32 of the Law
Nº 11,923, of March 27, 1953, in the wording given by article 12 of the Law
No. 12,079, of December 11, 1953, and by Article 171 of Law No. 12,376, of 31
of January 1957, to the assistance personnel (including Service Assistants) who
incorporate to the Agency when the situation excepted occurs by application
of the provisions of Article 717 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010, in the
Article 293 of Law No. 17,930, of December 19, 2005, in Article 285 of the Law
No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012, and in article 201 of Law No. 19,535, of November 25,
September 2017.

Page 183

183

The previously authorized exception will be applicable to those who
date of promulgation of this law have another public employment, and will cease at the
vacate any of the charges.

Article 276.- Increase the item provided in article 203 of the Law
No. 19,535, dated September 25, 2017, for fiscal year 2019, in $ 100,000,000 (one hundred
million Uruguayan pesos).

Article 277.- It is empowered to Section 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
State "to use an amount of $ 3,300,000 (three million three hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos)
of the item assigned by article 339 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013,
and an amount of $ 4,500,000 (four million five hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos) from the item
assigned by article 592 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, with destination
to finance salary adjustments for medical positions.

Article 278.- Reassign, in Section 29 "Health Services Administration
of the State ", executing unit 068" Administration of State Health Services ",
440 program "Comprehensive Health Care", from the object of expenditure 199,000 "Others
consumer goods not included in the above ", Financing 1.2" Resources with
Special Affectation ", to group 0" Personal Services ", in Financing 1.1" Income
General ", a total amount of $ 10,000,000 (ten million Uruguayan pesos) for the
year 2018, including bonus and legal charges, and increase from 2019 the sum of
$ 40,000,000 (forty million Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and charges
legal, destined to finance the creation of charges, supplements and adjustments
salaries for the formation of specialized and support teams in the Health area
Mental.

Section 29 "Administration of State Health Services" will deposit
annually to General Revenues the amount corresponding to the reallocation of credit
done.

Page 184

184

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 279.- The Administration of the State Health Services is empowered to
pay a single annual item for the "New Year's Eve Basket", which will be made
effective in the month of December of each year, by means of credit in account and / or
electronic money instrument, to budgeted and contracted officials, and to
either as holders or alternates, belonging to levels A, B, C, D, E, F and
R, according to the amounts detailed below:

- 2.5 BPC (two with five Bases of Benefits and Contributions) for those who
have a total salary, as of November 30 of each year, less than 6.5 BPC (six
with five Bases of Benefits and Contributions).

- 1.5 BPC (one with five Bases of Benefits and Contributions) for those who
have a total salary, as of November 30 of each year, greater than 6.5 BPC (six
with five Bases of Benefits and Contributions) and less than 10 BPC (ten
Bases of Benefits and Contributions).

- 0.80 BPC (zero with eighty Bases of Benefits and Contributions) for
those who have a total salary, as of November 30 of each year, greater than 10 BPC
(ten Bases of Benefits and Contributions) and less than 20 BPC (twenty Bases
of Benefits and Contributions).

Said amounts will correspond to the titular personnel who have one year of
seniority as of November 30 of each year. In case of not reaching seniority
referred, the amounts will be determined proportionally.

Page 185

185

In the case of substitute personnel, the amounts will be determined pro rata
of the months actually worked, in the year immediately prior to November 30
every year.

This benefit does not constitute taxable matter for contributions to the
social security or computable allowance.

The provisions of this article will be financed from budget credits
authorized in group 0 "Personal Services" and with the reassignment in Section 29
"Administration of State Health Services", executing unit 068
"Administration of State Health Services", program 440 "Comprehensive Care of the
Health ", Funding 1.2" Resources with Special Affectation ", of the object of expenditure 578,097
"End of the year basket", to group 0, Financing 1.1 "General Income", for an amount
of $ 31,700,000 (thirty-one million seven hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos).

In application of the previous paragraph, Section 29 "Administration of the
Salud del Estado "will annually deposit to General Revenues the amount corresponding to
the reallocation of credit carried out.

The provisions of this article may not generate incremental budgetary cost and
It will enter into force as of the promulgation of this law.

Article 280.- The remuneration concepts corresponding to officials who
occupy budgeted positions or perform functions contracted in Item 29
"Administration of State Health Services" will be classified into five
categories, in accordance with what is stated in the tables: (I) "Salary for the grade"; (II)

Page 186

186

"Compensation to Charge" and (III) "Distribution of objects of expenditure by category", which are
detailed in this article.

The Executive Branch, at the proposal of the Administration of Health Services of the
Taking into account the classification approved in this article, the State will regulate
the simplification of the objects of the expenditure that, as of the date of promulgation of the present
law, make up the remuneration of the officials mentioned in the previous paragraph.

Special compensation may be paid through fixed amounts, in which
In this case, the calculation basis provided for in the regulations that create them will not apply,
when it is related to percentage values, according to what
establish regulations.

The simplification and categorization provided in this article may not generate cost
budgetary, nor reduction of the remuneration that the civil servants perceive.

From the effective date of the regulation, it will not be applicable to Section 29
"Administration of State Health Services", article 106 of the Special Law
No. 7, of December 23, 1983; Article 26 of Law No. 16,170, of December 28
from 1990; Article 247 of Law No. 15.903, of November 10, 1987, with the
modifications introduced by articles 280 of Law No. 16,226, of October 29,
1991, and 349 of Law No. 17.296, of February 21, 2001, and under the conditions provided
in Article 269 of Law No. 17,930, of December 19, 2005; Articles 305, 306 and
307 of Law No. 16,320, of November 1, 1992, and what was established on the occasion of
the approval of the reformulation of the organizational structures, of September 19,
1997. Neither will the Administration of Health Services of the
State, the rules that create or modify the salary concepts that make up the
"Salary of the Degree" and the "Compensation to the Position".

Page 187

187

The amounts established are quantified at values ​as of January 1, 2018.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

TABLE (I): DEGREE SALARY

Grade

30 hours

36 hours

40 hours

48 hours

16

18,050.38

24,660.24

28,006.70

35,781.91

fifteen

16,436.23

22,723.21

25,859.88

33,199.27

14

14,999.65

20,999.33

23,949.25

30,900.78

13

13,733.08

19,479.45

22,264.69

28,874.25

12

12,629.07

18,154.64

20,796.35

27,107.81

eleven

11,664.87

16,997.63

19,514.02

25,565.15

10

10,723.36

15,867.80

18,261.78

24,058.71

9

9,907.56

14,888.82

17,176.77

22,753.41

8

9,204.89

14,045.67

16,242.25

21,629.19

7

8,596.74

13,315.85

15,433.37

20,656.14

6

7,699.22

12,238.81

14,239.63

19,220.03

5

7,015.18

11,417.94

13,329.88

18,125.59

4

6,586.49

10,903.54

12,759.71

17,439.67

3

6,228.21

10,473.64

12,282.25

16,866.48

two

5,521.34

9,625.35

11,343.07

15,735.46

1

5,200.35

9,240.15

10,916.14

15,221.85

Page 188

188

TABLE (II): OFFICE COMPENSATION

1) Medical Professional and Dentists:

Compensation

Grade

in charge

16

10,960.62

fifteen

12,574.77

14

14,011.35

13

15,277.92

12

16,381.93

eleven

17,346.13

10

18,287.64

9

19,103.44

8

19,806.11

7

20,414.26

6

21,311.78

5

21,995.82

4

22,424.51

3

22,782.79

two

23,489.66

1

23,810.65

2) Residents:

Compensation

Grade

in charge

16

2,099.90

Page 189

189

Compensation

Grade

in charge

fifteen

4,246.72

14

6,157.35

13

7,841.91

12

9,310.25

eleven

10,592.58

10

11,844.82

9

12,929.83

8

13,864.35

7

14,673.23

6

15,866.97

5

16,776.72

4

17,346.89

3

17,823.35

two

18,763.53

1

19,190.46

3) Rest of the professionals:

Compensation

Grade

in charge

16

12,409.46

fifteen

14,023.61

14

15,460.19

Page 190

190

Compensation

Grade

in charge

13

16,726.76

12

17,830.77

eleven

18,794.97

10

19,736.48

9

20,552.28

8

21,254.95

7

21,863.10

6

22,760.62

5

23,444.66

4

23,873.35

3

24,231.63

two

24,938.50

1

25,259.49

4) Rest of the officials:

Compensation

Grade

in charge

16

14,642.94

fifteen

14,599.23

14

14,449.45

13

14,304.37

Page 191

191

Compensation

Grade

in charge

12

14,204.70

eleven

14,104.05

10

13,976.44

9

13,838.69

8

13,798.22

7

13,678.41

6

13,517.22

5

13,468.47

4

13,376.99

3

13,237.30

two

13,134.25

1

13,034.92

TABLE (III): DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENDITURE OBJECTS BY CATEGORY

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
11311 SDO. BASIC PR.

011

000

X

012

000

X

012

000

X

012

000

X

012

000

X

LONGER HOURS
11312.2

8 H. PR.
COMPLEMENT

11312.3

GREATER HOUR. PRES.
GREATER HOUR. 6 D.

11312.5

MED. BEEF. PR.

11312.6 HIGHER HOURS

Page 192

192

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
6 D. PR.
COMPLEMENT
11312.8

GREATER HOUR. CONT.

031

001

X

013

000

X

042

108

X

012

000

x

012

000

X

022

000

X

022

000

X

031

001

X

11414 ARTICLE 26 PR.

014

000

X

11414.1 ARTICLE 26 PR. **

014

000

X

11414.5 ARTICLE 26 PR.

014

000

X

11414.9 DIF. ARTICLE 26

014

000

X

12714.1 TECHNICAL PREMIUM

042

010

x

12714.2 TECHNICAL PREMIUM

042

010

x

021

000

X

022

000

X

022

000

X

022

000

X

022

000

X

DEDIC. TOTAL
11313.1

PR. 60%
COMP. DIRECTORS

11313.2

HOSPITALS PR.
GREATER HOUR. CONV.

11315.1

2011 PRES.
GREATER HOUR. CONV.

11315.5

2011 RES. PRES.
GREATER HOUR. CONV.

11325.1

2011 CONT.
GREATER HOUR. CONV.

11325.5

2011 RES. CONT.
GREATER HOUR. CONV.

11335.1

2011 410.

21321 SDO. BASIC CT.
LONGER HOURS
21322.2

8 H. CT.
COMPLEMENT
GREATER HOUR.

21322.3

CONT. AN.
GREATER HOUR. 6 D.

21322.5

MED. BEEF. CT.

21322.6 HIGHER HOURS

Page 193

193

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
6 D. CT.
DEDIC. TOTAL
21323.1

CT. 60%

023

000

X

21424 ARTICLE 26 CT.

024

000

X

21424.1 ARTICLE 26 CT **

024

000

X

21424.5 ARTICLE 26 CT.

024

000

X

21424.9 DIF. ARTICLE 26

024

000

X

031

001

X

031

001

X

031

001

X

031

001

X

031

000

X

031

001

X

035

000

X

042

018

042

105

042

109

045

005

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

BASIC CONT.
31333.1

ART. 410
ARTICLE 26 CONT.

31333.2

ARTICLE 410
GREATER HOUR. 6 D

31333.3

CONT. ART. 410
GREATER HOUR. 8 HS.

31333.4

CONT. ART. 410
ART.

31333.6

26

ESP.

CONTR. 410

31334.9 DIF. ART. 26
REMUNERATION
34333

CD.
COMPENSATION

42018

FOR ONLY THIS TIME
COMP.

x

PERS.

TRANS ART. 7 LAW
42105

No. 17,930

x

CONTRIBUTION
42109

COM. SUPPORT

45005 BREAK TO
CTI
47044

ASSISTANT

NURSING
CTI

47045

x

ASSISTANT

SERVICE

Page 194

194

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

031-300
INCREASE
48017

MAY / 2003 PR

048

017

X

048

018

x

048

018

x

048

018

x

048

021

x

048

023

048

025

x

048

025

x

048

025

048

026

X

048

017

X

048

028

COMPLEMENT
ARTICLE 1:
48018

DECREE / 04
COMPLEMENT

48018.3

INCREASE 200501
COMPLEMENT

48019

INCREASE 200501
ADDITIONAL

48021

DECREE 259/005
INC. REC. WAGE

48023

LAW No. 17,930
RECUP.

X

WAGE

MSP ART. 104 LAW
48025

No. 18,046
RECUP.

WAGE

MSP

LAW

No. 18.046 / 104
48025.1

DOCTOR
SALARY CAP

48025.3

MED. A REG.

48026 INC. SALT. 200701

x

INCREASE
48027

MAY / 2003 CT
RECUP.

48028

MSP 01/08

WAGE
x

042-600

RECUP.
48028.3

WAGE

MSP 08/08
RECUP.

48028.5

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

029

WAGE

MSP 01/09
MEDICAL AGREEMENT

48029

HEADLINES

x

Page 195

195

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
MEDICAL STOP
48029.1

FAMILY
COMPL.

48029.3

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

029

x

042

034

ADJUSTMENT

DOCTOR
8% GUARDS NO

48029.4

AN. TIT.
COMP. LITERAL C)

48029.6

ART. 11 ACMED
30% EMERGENCY

48029.7

MOBILE
COMP.

48029.8

VARIABLE

AQ
30% EMERGENCY
MOBILE PART COM.

48029.9

FUNC.
COMP .FUNC.

48030

BLOCK TIT.
COMP.

48030.1

FUNC.

PHARMACY TIT.
PROFESSIONAL STOP

48030.2

TIT.
COMP.

48030.5

FUNC.

CYTOSTATICS
COMP.

48030.6

x

FUNC.

CHEMICALS TIT.
COMP. FUNC. LIC.

48030.9

ENF. TIT.
AGREEMENT
EXTRACTORS

48032

OF LAB.
COORD.

48033

PROG.

UDAS

48034 TRANS.

x

Page 196

196

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
FROZEN C / A
TRANS.
FROZEN
48034.1

PATRONAGE

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

048

017

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

048

030

x

042

034

x

042

034

048

030

x

048

029

x

HOSPITABLE

048

029

x

48044 CTI COMPLEMENT

048

030

x

48035 DIF. PROF. AC
DIF. PROF.
48035.1

PATRONAGE

48036 COMP. C / A FUNCTION
COMP.
48036.1

FUNCTION

PATRONAGE
INCREASE
MAY / 2003 CONT.

48037

ART. 410

48038 COMPL. UNIT 105
COMPL.
48038.1

X

FOR

EU FUNCTION 105
COMPL. AUX. ENF.

48038.2

EU 105
TELEPHONISTS

48038.3

SAME

48039 PROFESSIONAL STOP
INCENTIVE
48040

PATRONAGE
DIFFERENCE

48041

PATRONAGE

x

DIFFERENCE SERV.
48042

NEONATOLOGY
DISCHARGE

48043

HOSPITABLE
COMPLEMENT
DISCHARGE

48043.1

Page 197

197

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
CTI COMPLEMENT
48044.2

DOCTORS

48045 COMPLEMENT PPL

048

029

x

042

034

x

048

030

x

048

017

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

029

x

042

034

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

DIFFERENCE
48046

INSTRUMENTS
INCREASE

48047

MAY / 2003 ESC. PQ

X

VARIABLE PRIMER
48048

URBAN LEVEL
VARIABLE PRIMER

48048.1

RURAL LEVEL
VARIABLE PRIMER

48048.2

FICTO LEVEL
VARIABLE
CAPITA

48049

PER
FIRST

LEVEL
COMPL.

48050

RADIOTHERAPISTS
AGREEMENT

48050.1

RADIOLOGISTS
COMPL.

48050.2

IMAGENOLOGY
COMPL. 96 HS.

48050.3

RADIOT.
VAQ BACKGROUND

48053

RESERVATION
MIDDLE CONTROL S / H.

48054

VARIABLES
NEPHROLOGISTS S / H.

48055

VARIABLES
8% GUARD S / H.

48056

VARIABLES

Page 198

198

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
FLAT CONV.
48057

FEDERATION 2013

048

039

x

042

034

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

048

029

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

COMPL.
48058

ANESTHETICS
COMPL. FUNCTION

48059

HOSP. EYES
CATEGORIES

48060

HEMOTHERAPY
DOCTORS

48061

INTENSIVISTS
DOCTOR

48062

CTI COORDINATOR

48063.1 COMPL. CTI CHIEF (1)
COMPL. CTI CHIEF
48063.2

UEJ (2)

48063.3 COMPL. CTI CHIEF (3)
DOOR DOCTOR
48064

EMERGENCY
COMPLEMENT

48065

Drivers
COMPLEMENT

48066

BY FUNCTION
COMPL. RESOL.

48067

No. 3913/13
COMPLEMENT

48067.1

BY TRANSITION
COMPL.
AUDITOR

48068

ASSIST. INTEGRAL

48070 HIGH DEDICATION
HIGH DEDICATION
48071

MED. INTENSIVE

48072 HIGH DEDICATION

Page 199

199

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
MED. INTENS.
ADULTS
HIGH DEDICATION
MED. INTENS.
48073

PEDIATRIC

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

030

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

HIGH DEDICATION
48074

NEONATOLOGY CTI
STOP

48075

HEMOTHERAPY
HIGH DEDICATION

48076

NEPHROLOGY
HIGH DEDICATION
EMERGENCY

48077

PEDIATRIC
HIGH DEDICATION

48078

INTERNAL MEDICINE
HIGH DEDICATION

48079

PEDIATRICS
COMPL. 10%

48080

NEPHROLOGISTS
COMPL. DOCTOR
HEALING OF

48084

BORDER
DOCTOR
INTENSIVE

48085

GUARD
DOCTOR COORD.

48086

PEDIATRIC CTI
INTENSIVE DOCTOR.
CHIEF CTI PEDIAT.

48087.1

8 C.

48087.2 INTENSIVE MEDICAL

Page 200

200

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
CHIEF CTI PEDIAT.
8-16 C.
INTENSIVE DOCTOR.
CHIEF CTI PEDIAT.
48087.3

16 C.

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

030

x

TIME

048

029

x

48092 PAYMENT OF HOURS

042

034

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

029

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

COMPLEMENT
48088

CTI COORDINATOR
COMPLEMENT

48089

VACCINATORS
PAYMENT PER ONLY

48091

COMP. PROGRAM
48093

CUSTOMS
COMP. SPECIAL

48096

20% EU 105
HIGH DEDICATION

49100

MED. FAM. AND COM.
COMPL. MED. GRAL.

49102

POL.
COMPL. MED.
INTERN. Y
SIQUIATRA

49103

GUARD
AGREEMENT
NEPHROLOGY

49104

2017/01
SALARY FLOOR NO

49200

NURSING
SALARY FLOOR
DEGREE IN

49201

NURSING

Page 201

201

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
SALARY FLOOR
DEGREE IN
49201.1

ENF. (two)

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

048

030

x

49210 PRESENTATION

048

030

57000.1 BASIC LIC. ENF.

057

000

X

57000.2 BASIC MIDWIVES

057

000

X

57000.3 BASIC PSYCHOLOGISTS

057

000

X

052

000

x

042

033

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

042

034

042

034

SALARY FLOOR
ASSISTANT IN
49202

NURSING
FIXED MATCH

49203

SALARY CONV. 1
FIXED MATCH

49204

SALARY CONV. two
SALARY FLOOR
DEGREE IN

49205

ENF. CTI
SALARY FLOOR
DEGREE IN

49205.1

ENF. CTI (2)

61310 NEW NIGHT

x

100% MED RURAL
61312

PR.
HOURS

61314

ANESTHETIC PR
ART. 305 LAW

61314.1

No. 16,320 PR
ART. 305 LAW

61314.2

No. 16,320 / 2
ART. 305 LAW

61314.3

No. 16,320 / 3

x

PREMIUM TO
FUNCTION
61314.4

FROZEN

61314.5 ART. 305 LAW

x
x

Page 202

202

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
No. 16,320 / 5
ART. 305 LAW
61314.6

No. 16,320 PR.

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

052

000

x

052

000

x

052

000

x

052

000

x

052

000

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

035

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

DIF. ADEQUACY
61314.7

MSP
ANESTHETICS

61314.8

S / CHARGE
HOURS
ANESTHETIST

61314.9

AGREEMENT
JOB

61315

NIGHT PR.
JOB
NIGHT (WITHOUT

61315.2

LIQ. MONTHLY)
TRANSITORY PAYMENT

61315.4

NIGHT
JOB
NIGHT (ONLY

61315.5

COMPLEMENTARY)
INCREASE HOURS

61315.6

NIGHT

MANAGEMENT LEVELS
61316

AND DIRECTIONS

61316.1 40 HS. LEVEL 61314.1
25% JEF. HIGH
DEDICATION
61316.2

PEDIAT. UEJ 21
ACTIV. UNHEALTHY

61317

PR.
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS

61318

MEDICAL MEDIA

61318.1 NIV. PORC. CONTROLS

Page 203

203

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
CHEMICAL MEDIA
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS
MEDIA
61318.2

LICENSED

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

001

042

033

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

NIV. PORC. MM LIC.
61318.3

CHEM.
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS

61318.6

MEDIA M. FAM.
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS
MEDIA PROF.

61318.7

30 HS. OR MORE
COMMAND LEVEL
MEDIUM HIGH

61318.8

DEDICATION
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS
MEDIA

61318.9

RADIOLOGISTS
COMPENS.

61319

FROZEN PR.

x

100% MED RURAL
61322

CT
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS
MEDIA

61323

LICENSED
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS
MEDIA

61323.1

LICENSED
NIV. PORC. CONTROLS
MEDIA

61323.2

LICENSED

61324 HOURS

Page 204

204

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
ANESTHETIC CT.
ART. 305 LAW
61324.1

No. 16,320 CT.

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

042

034

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

052

000

x

042

035

x

042

001

042

033

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

ART. 305 LAW
61324.2

No. 16,320 / 2
ART. 305 LAW

61324.3

No. 16,320 / 3

x

PREMIUM TO
FUNCTION
61324.4

FROZEN

x

ART. 305 LAW
61324.5

No. 16,320 / 5
ANESTHETICS

61324.8

S / CHARGE
HOURS
ANESTHETIST

61324.9

CT AGREEMENT.
JOB

61325

NIGHT CT.
ACTIV. UNHEALTHY

61327

CT.
COMPENSATION

61329

FROZEN CT.

x

100% MED.
61332

RURAL
HOURS

61334

ANESTHETIST
ART. 305 LAW

61334.1

No. 16,320
ART. 305 LAW

61334.2

No. 16320/2

Page 205

205

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
ART. 305 LAW
61334.3

No. 16,320 / 3

042

034

x

042

034

042

034

x

042

034

x

042

034

x

052

000

x

042

001

015

000

x

011

000

x

044

001

x

044

001

x

044

001

x

016

000

x

042

081

x

042

038

PREMIUM TO
FUNCTION
61334.4

FROZEN

x

ART. 305 LAW
61334.5

No. 16,320 / 5
ANESTHETICS

61334.8

S / CHARGE
HOURS
ANESTHETIST

61334.9

AGREEMENT (410)
JOB

61335

NIGHT
COMPENSATION

61339

FROZEN

x

EXPENSES
62311

REPRESENTATION
DEDICATION

62315

PERMANENT
SENIORITY PREMIUM

62318

PR.
SENIORITY PREMIUM

62328

CT.

62338 PREMIUM SENIORITY
EXPENSES
62511

REPRESENTATION
RETAIN GUARD

64311

PR.
COMPENSATION

64312

TRANSITORIA PR.

x

Page 206

206

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
COMPENSATION
64312.1

TRANSITORIA PR.

042

038

x

042

081

042

038

042

081

042

038

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

RETAIN GUARD
64321

CT.

x

COMPENSATION
64322

TRANSITORY CT.

x

GUARDS OF
64331

RETAIN

x

COMPENSATION
64332

TRANSITORY

x

GUARD RETAIN
64340

BLOCK LIC.
GUARD RETAIN

64340.1

BLOCK LIC. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64341

TECHNICAL BLOCK
GUARD RETAIN
TECHNICAL BLOCK

64341.1

PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64342

INSTR.
GUARD RETAIN

64342.1

INSTR. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64343

BLOCK AUX. ENF.
GUARD RETAIN
BLOCK AUX. ENF.

64343.1

PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64344

LAB. LIC.
GUARD RETAIN

64344.1

LAB. LIC. PERMANENT

Page 207

207

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
GUARD RETAIN
64345

LAB. TECHNICIANS

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

GUARD RETAIN
64345.1

LAB. FIXED TECHNICIANS
GUARD RETAIN

64346

LAB. AUX. LAB.
GUARD RETAIN

64346.1

LAB. AUX. LAB. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64347

LAB. AUX. ENF.
GUARD RETAIN

64347.1

LAB. AUX. ENF. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64348

RAD. LIC.
GUARD RETAIN

64348.1

RAD. LIC. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64349

RAD. TECHNICIANS
GUARD RETAIN
RAD. TECHNICIANS

64349.1

PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64350

RAD. AUX. ENF.
GUARD RETAIN

64350.1

RAD. AUX. ENF. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64351

OTHER CHOF.
GUARD RETAIN

64351.1

OTHER CHOF. PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64352

OTHER AUX. ENF.
GUARD RETAIN

64352.1

OTHER AUX. ENF.

Page 208

208

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN
64353

OTHER AUX. FAR.

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

GUARD RETAIN
OTHER AUX. FAR.
64353.1

PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64354

OTHER MAINTENIM.
GUARD RETAIN
OTHER MAINTENIM.

64354.1

PERMANENT
GUARD RETAIN

64355

OTHER PLASTER
GUARD RETAIN

64355.1

OTHER FIXED PLASTER
GUARD RETAIN
SERVICE

64356

HEMOTHERAPY
GUARD RETAIN
SERVICE

64356.1

FIXED HEMOTHERAPY
GUARD RETAIN

64357

AUX. SERVICE
GUARD RETAIN

64357.1

AUX. FIXED SERVICE
GUARD RETAIN
OBSTETRICIAN

64358

MIDWIFE
GUARD RETAIN
OBSTETRICIAN

64358.1

FIXED MIDWIVER

64360 GUARD RETAINER

Page 209

209

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
LIC. NURSING
GUARD RETAIN
LIC. NURSING
64360.1

FIXED

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

081

x

042

015

x

042

015

x

042

041

No. 16,462

042

044

64421 ASSIDUITY CT.

042

015

x

042

015

x

042

041

042

044

64431 ASSIDUITY

042

015

x

64431.3 ASSIDUITY / 3

042

015

x

042

041

042

044

PAC. PR.

042

049

x

65316.1 DIRECT CARE

042

049

x

GUARD RETAIN
LIC. NOT
64361

NURSING
GUARD RETAIN
LIC. NOT

64361.1

FIXED NURSING

64411 ASSIDUITY PR.
64411.3 SERVICE PR / 3
COMP. MONTHLY
64413

MSP

X

20% ART. 9 LAW
64416

64421.3 SERVICE CT / 3

x

COMP. MONTHLY
64423

MSP

X

20% ART. 9 LAW
64426

No. 16,462

x

COMP. MONTHLY
64433

MSP

X

20% ART. 9 LAW
64436

No. 16,462

x

20% AT. DIR. TO THE
65316

Page 210

210

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
PATIENT
65317 15% ROOM SEC. PR

042

050

x

042

049

x

042

049

x

042

050

042

049

x

042

049

x

042

050

043

002

x

043

002

x

MEDICAL

043

002

x

66417 PRODUCTIVITY

043

001

x

67311 ART. 9 LAW No. 16,320

042

034

042

060

042

061

042

060

042

061

042

060

042

061

20% AT. DIR. TO THE
65326

PAC. CT.
DIRECT ATTENTION

65326.1

PATIENT

65327 15% ROOM SEC. CT.

x

20% AT. DIR. TO THE
65336

PAC. CONT. 410
DIRECT ATTENTION

65336.1

PATIENT

65337 15% ROOM SEC.

x

INC. PRODUC.
66317

MEDICAL PR.
INC. PRODUC.

66327

MEDICAL CT.
INC. PRODUC.

66337

x

COMPENSATION
67313

6.95

X

COMPENSATION OF
67314

TABLE

x

COMPENSATION
67323

6.95

X

COMPENSATION OF
67324

TABLE

x

COMPENSATION
67333

6.95

X

COMPENSATION OF
67334

TABLE

x

Page 211

211

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
COMP. FOR
REFORM OF
69313

CONDITION

042

086

x

042

086

x

042

086

x

042

086

x

042

086

x

042

086

x

048

009

X

048

006

X

048

007

048

009

X

048

006

X

048

007

048

009

INCREASE
69313.1

OCTOBER / 2003
DIFFERENCE BY

69313.3

INCREASE 200701
INCREASE
OCTOBER / 2003

69313.4

MED / ODO
COMP. FOR

69323

STATE REFORM
COMP. FOR

69333

STATE REFORM
INCREASE

83315

SPECIAL
INCREASE

83318

JANUARY '94
INCREASE
DIFFERENTIAL LAW

83319

No. 16,713

x

INCREASE
83325

SPECIAL
INCREASE

83328

JANUARY '94
INCREASE
DIFFERENTIAL LAW

83329

No. 16,713

x

INCREASE
83335

SPECIAL

X

Page 212

212

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
INCREASE
83338

JANUARY '94

048

006

X

048

007

055

000

X

048

003

X

048

003

X

048

003

X

048

029

x

048

030

x

042

034

042

034

x

042

034

x

071

000

x

072

000

x

073

000

x

074

000

x

074

000

x

INCREASE
DIFFERENTIAL LAW
83339

No. 16,713

87331 BASIC AFE

x

INCREASE
88312

ADDITIONAL
INCREASE

88322

ADDITIONAL
INCREASE

88332

ADDITIONAL
COMPLEMENT 25%

480781

VARIABLE
COMP. SPECIAL

480961

20% EU 105
PAY

578077

EXCEPTIONAL

x

END OF BASKET
578097

YEAR
VARIABLE

578103

TRAINING
PREMIUM FOR

751000

MARRIAGE
HOME

752000

CONSTITUTED
PREMIUM FOR

753000

BIRTH
PERFORMANCE BY

754000

CHILD
ASSIGNMENT

754001

FAMILY

Page 213

213

Code

Object

Category I

Category II

Salary to degree

Compensation

Category III
Compensation

Category IV
Incentives

Category V
Compensation

Name
row

of spending

Assistant

011-300

in charge

021-300

042-400

specials

042-700

personal

row
current

current

042-500

042-600

031-300
ASSIGNMENT
754002

FAMILY

074

000

x

Article 281.- Create in Section 29 "Administration of Health Services of the
State ", the Unit" Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health ", which will be
responsible for meeting objectives and managing resources
assigned to the following programs:

1) Oral Health Program created by article 212 of Law No. 18,996, of 7
November 2012.

2) National School Hearing Health Program.

3) National School Visual Health Program.

Repeal articles 208 to 214 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012.

Article 282.- The Unit "Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health",
will have the following tasks and attributions:

1) Schedule, plan and execute your activity plan annually and assign
the resources that are budgeted for that purpose.

Page 214

214

2) Carry out the necessary actions in order to carry out the tasks of the
Oral Health Program, National School Hearing Health Program and
National School Visual Health Program.

3) Promote, coordinate and develop plans and programs to support policies
educational, preventive and care for children, in matters of oral health,
auditory and visual, as well as carry out its execution with the personnel in their charge
or with the one that corresponds according to the provisions of the Board of the
State Health Services Administration.

4) Coordinate actions with all public or private entities, assistance,
social, union, cultural, sporting or of another nature that have
competences or are related to the subject matter of its object.

5) Contribute to the exercise of the right to education, promoting actions
aimed at the prevention and assistance of oral, auditory and visual health at school,
that allow equal access to the consigned right and development
healthy childhood in the aforementioned matter.

6) Develop educational, preventive and assistance programs for the population
objective, according to the design adopted, within the framework of current regulations.

7) Propose to the Board of the State Health Services Administration the
conclusion of agreements with the Ministry of Public Health in the matter of its
competence.

8) Prepare the draft of its internal regulations, which will be submitted to the Board of Directors of
the State Health Services Administration for approval.

Page 215

215

Article 283.- The Unit "Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health"
will be directed by a Director appointed by the Board of Directors of the
State Health Services, who will be mandatorily advised by a Commission,
integrated as follows:

A) Two delegates from the State Health Services Administration, one from
which will preside over it.

B) Two delegates of the Central Directive Council of the National Administration of
Public education.

C) Two delegates from the University of the Republic appointed at the proposal of the
Faculties of Medicine and Dentistry, respectively.

D) Two delegates from the Ministry of Public Health.

Article 284.- The Administration of the State Health Services will provide the
Unit "Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health" and its Commission the
human, material and financial resources necessary for its proper functioning.
The human, material and financial resources, affected on the date of entry into
validity of this law to the Oral Health Program of the Ministry of Public Health,
created by articles 208 to 213 of Law No. 18,996, of November 7, 2012,
They will become dependent on the Unit created by article 281 of this law.

Also transfer the items assigned in Item 12 "Ministry of Health
Public "program 442" Health Promotion ", Project 102" School Oral Health ", of the
executing unit 001 "General Secretariat Directorate" for Health Programs
Auditory and Visual with exclusive destination to Section 29 "Administration of the
Health of the State "in the Unit" Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health ".

Page 216

216

Section 29 "Administration of State Health Services" will communicate to the
General Accounting Office of the Nation, within ninety days of the beginning of the fiscal year, the
opening of credits between salaries, operating expenses and investments.

Budgeted staff assigned to serve in the Ministry of Health
Public and in the Presidency of the Republic, in the Oral, Hearing and Health Programs
Visual, will have a period of ninety days from the entry into force of the
present law to exercise the option to remain in the organization of origin or to be
transferred to the Unit "Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health".

Authorize the Administration of the State Health Services to incorporate
the people who, as of the date of entry into force of this law, are
performing tasks for the Administration's School Oral Health Program
National Public Education (ANEP), dependent on positions
budgetary according to the structure of the organization (ASSE), with regard to
working conditions and remuneration.

Subsection 29, "Administration of State Health Services", is authorized to
create up to ninety care and support positions, in order to comply with the
provided in the preceding paragraph, as of the date of promulgation of this law.

The budget credits and items that are transferred to the Administration of the
State Health Services for the execution of the programs detailed in the
This article may not be used for any other object or program.

The personnel referred to in this article must carry out tasks in the centers
education of the Council of Initial and Primary Education (CEIP) of the ANEP, in accordance with
with the schedule defined by the Director of the Unit "Education, prevention and

Page 217

217

school health diagnosis "and with the consent of the CEIP.

SECTION 31

TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY

Article 285.- Assign yourself in Section 31 "Technological University", unit
executor 001 "Central Board of Directors", program 353 "Academic Development", with
charge to Financing 1.1 "General Income", an item of $ 50,000,000 (fifty
million of Uruguayan pesos) destined to the payment of personal salaries, for the
hiring of teaching hours and non-teaching staff required for the consolidation and
culmination of current careers that have not yet dictated all their semesters.

Article 286.- Subsection 31 "Technological University" is authorized to allocate an amount
of up to $ 50,000,000 (fifty million Uruguayan pesos) annually for the payment of
teaching hours. The disbursement will be attended with funds that have been turned over to the
"Public Infrastructure Fund - UTEC" in application of the provisions of the
Article 346 of Law No. 19,149, of October 24, 2013, which will be reinstated
a General Income.

Let the General Accounting Office of the Nation be empowered to carry out the qualifications
necessary in order to comply with the provisions above.

Page 218

218

The provisions of this article shall govern exclusively during the term of the
National Budget of Salaries, Expenses and Investments - Period 2015-2019.

SECTION 32

URUGUAYAN INSTITUTE OF METEOROLOGY

Article 287.- Add to Article 13 of Law No. 19,158, of October 25, 2013,
the following literal:

"G) Ministry of Tourism".

SECTION 33

ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE NATION

Article 288.- Replace Article 35 of Law No. 19,483, of January 5, 2017,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 35. (Functional competence) .- Corresponds to the Civil Prosecutor's Offices of
Montevideo:

Page 219

219

A) Promote civil action in processes related to diffuse interests,
Nullity of marriage, loss, limitation or suspension of the fatherland
authority, appointment of guardian and appointment of curator.

B) Intervene in the processes related to adoptions, right to identity of
gender and change of name and sex and concubinary union and in the
processes for the protection of threatened and violated rights of
girls, boys and adolescents (articles 117 to 132 of the Code of Childhood and
Adolescence).

C) Intervene in the processes related to maintenance obligations in the
foreigner (Convention on obtaining food abroad,
New York, 1956, and Inter-American Convention on Obligations
Food, CIDIP IV, Montevideo, 1989) ".

This article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the present
law.

Article 289.- Replace article 29.1 of the General Code of the Process, approved
by Law No. 15,982, of October 18, 1988, and amendments, by the following:

"ARTICLE 29. (Intervention as a third party) .-

29.1 The Public Ministry will intervene as a third party in the process only in
processes related to: protection of threatened rights or

Page 220

220

of girls, boys and adolescents (articles 117 to 132 of the Code
of Children and Adolescents), unconstitutionality of the law (article 508 and
following of the General Process Code), adoptions (articles 135 to
157 of the Childhood and Adolescence Code), the right to identity of
gender and the change of name and sex (Law No. 18,620, of October 25,
2009) and common-law union (Law No. 18,246, of December 27, 2007) ".

This article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the present
law.

Article 290.- Substitute Article 58 of Law No. 19,580, of December 22,
2017, by the following:

"ARTICLE 58. (Transformation of Specialized Prosecutors) .- Transform
the Specialized Prosecutors for Domestic Violence in Criminal Prosecutors of
Montevideo on Sexual Crimes, Domestic Violence and Violence Based on
Gender, which they will understand in the investigation and litigation of the crimes that are
assigned according to the criteria of flexibility and dynamism (Article 9 of the
Law No. 19,483, of January 5, 2017) ".

This article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the present
law.

Article 291.- Subsection 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation" be empowered to create until
seven Departmental Prosecutor's Offices. The Attorney General's Office will determine the
location and date of installation of the new Departmental Prosecutor's Offices that are created, and
It will set the shift regime, as well as the distribution of files in process.

Page 221

221

The provisions of this article will be financed from the budget credits.
of the Office of the Attorney General of the Nation and will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 292.- Substitute literal k) of article 45.1 of Law No. 19,293, of 19
December 2014, in the wording given by Article 6 of Law No. 19,549, of December 25,
October 2017 (Code of Criminal Procedure), by the following:

"k) Request, in a well-founded manner, from public or private institutions, all
information that is necessary in the framework of the investigation that is
performing and is available in your records, provided the delivery does not involve
affectation of guarantees or fundamental rights of people ".

This article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the present
law.

Article 293.- Believe in Section 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation", 41 charges of
Advisor I Advocacy, PC ladder, grade V, destined for the Accusatory Penal System Area.

Assign in the object of expenditure 098,000 "Personal Services" an item of
$ 10,846,978 (ten million eight hundred forty-six thousand nine hundred seventy-eight
Uruguayan pesos) for 2018 and $ 32,540,933 (thirty-two million five hundred
forty thousand nine hundred thirty-three Uruguayan pesos) incremental for the
financial year 2019, which include Christmas bonus and legal charges and in the object of expenditure 284,003
"Academic Improvement and Technical Improvement Game", a game of
$ 245,508 (two hundred forty-five thousand five hundred eight Uruguayan pesos) for the
2018 and $ 736,524 (seven hundred thirty-six thousand five hundred twenty-four pesos

Page 222

222

Uruguayans) incremental for the year 2019, destined to finance the disbursement
annual of the positions created in 2018.

The items assigned by this article, for the 2018 financial year, will be excepted
of the faculty established in article 637 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 294.- Believe in Subsection 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation", destined to
the Information and Technology System Unit, the following positions: two positions of Chief
Team II, PC ladder, grade VIII, two IT Specialist IV positions,
EP level, grade VII, three positions of Computer Specialist II, EP level, grade IV
and five positions of Computer Specialist I, EP rank, grade III.

The positions belonging to the PC ladder, grade VIII, will have a regime of
permanence to the order with a compensation of 30% (thirty percent) of the
remuneration of the position.

The creations provided in this article will be financed from the
Annual items of Financing 1.1 "General Income", which are assigned in the
objects of expenditure and for the periods detailed, for the following amounts
cumulative:

Page 223

223

ODG
098,000

2018

2019

3,117,795

9,353,384

284,003

22,560

67,680

284,004

47,484

142,452

The items assigned by this article, for the 2018 financial year, will be excepted
of the faculty established in article 637 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19,
2015.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 295.- Subsection 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation" is empowered to use the
amounts generated by leave without pay and reserve of positions of its personnel,
to finance the payment of the subrogations provided for in the third paragraph of article 59
of Law No. 19,483, of January 5, 2017.

Article 296.- Subsection 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation" be empowered to implement
a special work regime, by which its officials may be subject to the
possibility of being summoned outside the "normal hours" of work, in the days and hours
that demands the service. This special regime does not include civil servants of the
ladder N.

The special regime may not exceed twelve hours on Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays.

Page 224

224

The perception of compensation for special work regime will be
incompatible with overtime, work on non-working days, night-time, exclusivity,
as well as with the regime of hours to be compensated.

Assign yourself an annual item of $ 3,000,000 (three million Uruguayan pesos)
including bonus and legal charges, in Financing 1.1 "General Income", with
destination for the implementation of the aforementioned compensation.

The Office of the Attorney General of the Nation will regulate this regime.

Article 297.- The positions of the PC ladder, denomination "Advocacy", of Item 33
"Office of the Attorney General of the Nation" are incompatible with the liberal exercise of the profession.

The incompatibility of the professional practice ceases when it comes to their own affairs
or of your spouse or common-law partner, blood relatives in a straight line and collateral until
second degree and by those of people under their legal representation, being required for
said exercise communication to the Attorney General of the Nation.

Assign an annual item of $ 5,367,450 (five million three hundred sixtyseven thousand four hundred and fifty Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges,
charged to Financing 1.1 "General Income", object of expenditure 098,000 "Services
Personal ", to pay a compensation for incompatibility of $ 6,000
(six thousand Uruguayan pesos) per month, plus Christmas bonus and legal charges.

Page 225

225

SECTION 34

TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC ETHICS BOARD

Article 298.- The officials who go on to perform functions in commission in the
Board of Transparency and Public Ethics, in accordance with article 15 of Law No. 19,340, of
August 28, 2015, they will keep all the remuneration that for any concept
received in the organization of origin, including any kind of item or compensation
special by dedication or specialization, or departure by exclusive dedication, being in
In this case of application, the same requirements and limitations as in the
source.

Article 299.- Add to Article 595 of Law No. 15,903, of November 10,
1987, the following literal:

"N) From Inciso 34" Board of Transparency and Public Ethics ", all its units
executors ".

The resources of special affectation that the aforementioned subsection perceives, may be
intended to pay compensation for special tasks, operating expenses and
investments.

Article 300.- Substitute Article 16 of Law No. 17.060, of December 23,
1998, by the following:

Page 226

226

"ARTICLE 16.- In case of non-presentation of the affidavit within the deadlines
provided for in article 13 of this law, the Transparency and Ethics Board
Public (JUTEP) will notify the officials who have failed. If in the fifteen days
later did not comply with the obligation or did not justify a legal impediment, the
JUTEP will publish on its website and in the Official Gazette, the name and position of the
officials who have failed to make the declaration provided for in articles 10 and
11 of this law, without prejudice to what is established in the following article.

Provide that the publication in the Official Gazette referred to in the preceding paragraph shall not
it will cost the JUTEP ".

Article 301.- In Section 34 "Transparency and Public Ethics Board" a position of
Advisor I, Ladder A, Grade 16, Systems Engineer Series.
Reassign in Section 34 "Public Transparency and Ethics Board", unit
executor 001 "Transparency and Public Ethics Board", Program 262 "Control of
fiscal matters, financ. and management inst. of the State ", of the Object of Expenditure 299,000" Others
non-personal services not included in the above ", to group 0" Personal Services ",
According to the following detail:

Purpose of expenditure
011300
042400
042510
048032
059000
081000
082000
087000
Total

Amount
288,081
700,908
197,376
13,637
100,000
253,500
13,000
60,000
1,626,502

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Page 227

227

Article 302.- Public officials, belonging to the items of the Budget
National, that on the date of the promulgation of this law there are
performing uninterrupted commission duties with a minimum of one year in
Section 34 "Board of Transparency and Public Ethics", may choose to join
definitive.

The incorporation will be carried out provided that the cumulative
following conditions:

a) Favorable report from the JUTEP Board of Directors;

b) Acceptance of the Hierarch of the Organism of origin.

Once the aforementioned ends are fulfilled, the incorporation will maintain the functional hierarchy and
all the remuneration of the official received for any reason, except for
those items corresponding to compensation for performance of functions
specials, incentives and exclusive dedication.

Once the incorporation is resolved, the position or function and its endowment must be
suppressed in the organization of origin and be authorized in the organization of destination, whose
effects, the General Accounting Office of the Nation will apply the budgetary mechanisms
relevant.

Page 228

228

SECTION 35

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ADOLESCENT SOCIAL INCLUSION

Article 303.- Make it available to Subsection 35 "National Institute of Social Inclusion
Adolescent ", to rationalize their job structure, with the advice of
the National Office of the Civil Service, without this operation implying an infringement of rights
functional nor budgetary costs.

The National Institute for Adolescent Social Inclusion will send the draft
restructuring, formulated in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, at the consideration of
the General Assembly, which must be issued within a period of forty-five days of
received. Once said period has elapsed without express observation to the contrary,
will consider approved.

The restructuring authorized in this regulation must be financed with the
budgetary credits of the subsection, including the item assigned in this law, not
being able to generate additional budgetary cost.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 304.- Authorize Subsection 35 "National Institute of Social Inclusion
Adolescent "(INISA), to transform the positions held by those civil servants of the
Institute that on the date of promulgation of this law, perform functions
different from those of the position they hold by virtue of the needs of the different
Administration services. Said officials may access the transformation of

Page 229

229

their positions, in positions of another echelon of the same system.

Transformations must meet the following requirements:

A) Prove to have performed satisfactorily, in the opinion of the immediate hierarch,
the tasks of the ladder to which it is intended to access and comply with the
requirements of the same.

B) To enter Levels A "University Professional Personnel" and B
"Professional Technical Personnel", applicants must present the respective
qualifications, diplomas or qualifying credits, issued, registered or revalidated by
the competent authorities.

C) To enter the C "Administrative Personnel" ladder, applicants must
demonstrate administrative training, through level course certificates
medium, issued by the Secondary Education and / or Education Councils
Professional Technician of the National Public Education Administration, or by
Institutions authorized by the Ministry of Education and Culture.

D) To enter the D "Specialized Personnel" ladder, applicants must
certify having acquired knowledge of the techniques that allow them
develop the functions of the ladder to which they would access.

E) To enter the E "Trades Personnel" ladder, applicants must
reliably certify knowledge and skill in the execution of the tasks
of the office they would perform.

F) To enter the F ladder "Auxiliary Services Personnel", they must have
skills and abilities to develop the tasks defined for the respective

Page 230

230

scale. Complete basic secondary training must also be accredited,
taken in the Institutes of Secondary Education, Technical Professional or in
those institutions authorized by the Ministry of Education and Culture.

The INISA Board of Directors will determine if the transformation of the position requested is
necessary for the management of the Institution and in that case the transformation will be carried out in
the last occupied grade of the ladder and series, not being able to have a budgetary cost.

It will be financed, if necessary, from the credits authorized in the
executing unit, in group 0 "Personal Services". In no case may you decrease the
remuneration level of officials.

Once the transformation has been carried out, the difference that may arise between the
official received in the previous position and that of the position to which he accedes, provided that the
position to which the official accedes has a lower remuneration than the one he came from
receiving, it will be assigned as a temporary personal compensation, which will be
absorbing in future increases due to changes in the salary table, promotions,
increase in the official's grade and permanent compensation or items,
whatever their financing, they are granted in the future. Said compensation
staff will carry all increases that the Executive Branch provides for officials
of the public administration.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation
of this law.

Article 305.- Make it available to Subsection 35 "National Institute of Social Inclusion
Adolescent "(INISA), to transform contracts of a nature into provisional contracts
eventual effective as of January 1, 2019. The officials hired under said
modality will occupy the level of entry of the respective ladder, without prejudice to

Page 231

231

continue to perform the same functions, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 149 of Law No. 19,438, of October 14, 2016. Those officials whose
eventual contract has more than twelve months of validity, they will be evaluated and obtain a
favorable result, will be budgeted.

The officials reached by the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall maintain their
remuneration level. If the remuneration of the eventual contract is greater than that of the
provisional or budget charge, the difference will be considered compensation
temporary staff that will be absorbed by future increases, by changes in the
table of salaries, promotions, civil servant grade increase, compensation or
permanent items awarded in the future, regardless of their
financing. Said personal compensation will carry the increases that the Executive Power
provide for public officials.

INISA officials who on the date of promulgation of this law
They have a permanent civil service contract and a favorable evaluation,
they will be budgeted in the degree of entry of the respective ladder. Those who don't
meet the requirements for budgeting, maintain a role contract
public until they comply with said end or cease their function.

Article 306.- Public officials, from organizations that are members of the
national budget that are performing tasks in commission for a period
over three years without interruption, in program 461 "Management of deprivation
of freedom "of Item 27" Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay "or Item 35
"National Institute for Adolescent Social Inclusion", they may choose to request their
definitive incorporation to subsection 35 "National Institute of Adolescent Social Inclusion".

The officials will maintain all the functional and remunerative rights of their
office of origin.

Page 232

232

The rules of budget adequacy and incorporation will only apply.
in force on the matter, as appropriate. In case the incorporation must
verified in a position with a different profile than the original position, the change of
ladder, entering through the last occupied grade of the corresponding ladder.

Once the incorporation of the officials reached by this standard has been verified,
The statute of the destination body will be applicable in all cases.

Article 307.- Join the health professionals of the 461 program
"Management of the deprivation of liberty", understood as those persons who
perform technical functions inherent to levels A, B and D, linked in
direct way to human health care, to the accumulation of charges regime
established in Article 107 of Decree-Law No. 14,985, of December 28, 1979, and
its regulation.

Health professionals, who perform tasks in the Inclusion Institute
Social Adolescent, they may accumulate with another position they perform in the
Public administration.

The requirements for this accumulation of charges are:

A) The non-overlapping of schedules between both positions and provided that it does not cause
damage to the respective service, in the opinion of the Technical Director of the Service or Hierarch
as appropriate.

B) Do not exceed the limit of twelve hours a day of work.

Page 233

233

C) The accumulation of charges is not applicable in the cases of medical professionals or
Paramedics serving as Unit Directors or
Department and that due to the required availability and inherent responsibility
to the function, they perform on a full-time basis.

The accumulation procedure will begin in the Agency corresponding to the
last designation.

Article 308.- Subsection 35 "National Institute of Social Inclusion is authorized
Adolescent "(INISA) to carry out the following simplification and categorization of the objects
of the expense of group 0 "Personal Services", associated with teacher salaries,
according to what emerges from the following table:

Object of the
Code and Description

Grade

Position

Special

Personal

Incentive

spending
011,000

Basic salary of charges

X

Increase due to longer hours
012,000

X
permanent

014,000

Maximum compensation to degree

X

Basic salary for functions
021,000

X
hired
Increase due to longer hours

022,000

X
permanent

024,000

Maximum compensation to degree

X

041.006

Premium for permanence in office

X

042.001

Frozen offsets

X

042,014

Compensation for permanence at

X

Page 234

2. 3. 4

Object of the
Code and Description

Grade

Position

Special

Personal

Incentive

spending
the order
042,032

Salary increase for activity

X

Complementary remuneration for
042,034

X
functions other than the position
Temporary personal compensation,

042,038

X
absorbed with ascent

042,040

Direct assistance to the minor

X

042,064

Percentage monthly compensation

042,087

Performance incentive

X
X

Special compensation for complying
042,520

X
Specific conditions

042,710

Incentive for presenteeism
Incentive

X

for

performance,

042,720

X
dedication, and / or productivity

047.001

By matching ranks

X

047.003

Food item without contributions

X

048.007

Differential percentage of increase

X

048.009

Salary increase Decree 203/92

X

Salary increase from
048,017

X
05/01/2003 Dec. No. 191/03
Complement for not reaching

048,018

X
minimum

048,023

Salary recovery

X

048,026

Salary recovery January 2007

X

048,028

Salary recovery January 2008

X

048,031

Salary recovery January 2009

X

Page 235

235

Object of the
Code and Description

Grade

Position

Special

Personal

Incentive

spending
048,032

Salary recovery January 2010

X

As of the approval of the regulation by the INISA Board of Directors,
all legal and regulatory norms that oppose the provisions of this
Article referring to the simplification and categorization of the objects of expenditure of the
grade category, will not be applicable to the determination of the remuneration of
the educational officials of the organization. Such simplification and categorization may not
generate budgetary cost, nor decrease in the remuneration received by teachers.

Article 309.- Reassign in Section 35 "National Institute of Social Inclusion
Adolescent ", program 461" Management of deprivation of liberty ", of the object of the
expenditure 289,009 "Benefits for Assisted and Supervised Freedom Agreements - Community" to
group 0 "Personal Services", the equivalent in national currency to 15,000 UR (fifteen
thousand readjustable units), destined to the creation of new jobs.

The provisions of this article will enter into force as of the promulgation of the
present law.

Article 310.- Increase in Section 35 "National Institute of Social Inclusion
Adolescent ", in program 461" Management of deprivation of liberty ", charged to the
Financing 1.1 "General Income", the budgetary credit of group 0 "Services
Personal ", aimed at strengthening the structure of positions and functions, for a
total amount of $ 43,873,572 (forty-three million eight hundred seventy-three thousand
five hundred and seventy-two Uruguayan pesos), including Christmas bonus and legal charges.

Page 236

236

SECTION VI

OTHER ITEMS

SECTION 21

SUBSIDIES AND SUBSIDIES

Article 311.- Reassign the credit of literal C) of Article 6 of Law No. 18,846,
of November 25, 2011, according to the following detail:

A) In the year 2019, destined to literals A) and B) of the same legal norm,
in an amount of US $ 1,650,000 (one million six hundred fifty thousand dollars of the
United States of America) for each literal, in order to finance the
obligations that arise from said exercise, not being able to execute
annually an amount greater than that corresponding to the 2018 financial year,
extending the validity of the authorized subsidies until the funds are exhausted
willing to those ends. The payment of literal A will be made considering semesters
as of June 30 and December 31 of each year.

B) For fiscal year 2019, an amount of US $ 322,442 (three hundred twenty-two thousand
four hundred and forty-two dollars of the United States of America), to the literal
A), in order to make the payment of the committed balance at the end of the year
2018 to companies in the clothing sector that applied for these purposes.

Page 237

237

C) An amount of US $ 1,641,525 (one million six hundred forty-one thousand five hundred
twenty-five dollars of the United States of America), in fiscal year 2018, in its
equivalent in Uruguayan pesos, to the Operation Project "Strengthening
and Implementation of Productive Specialization Policies ", approved by the
Article 25 of Law No. 18,046, of October 24, 2006, and amended by the
Article 225 of Law No. 18,362, of October 6, 2008, Section 08
"Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining", executing unit 001 "Address
Secretary General. "This literal will come into effect from the date of
promulgation of this law.

D) An amount of US $ 1,641,525 (one million six hundred forty-one thousand five hundred
twenty-five dollars of the United States of America) in fiscal year 2019, in its
equivalent in Uruguayan pesos, to Item 31 "Technological University", in order to
hire teaching hours.

If any, as of December 31, 2018, balance in paragraph C) of article 6 of the Law
Nº 18,846, of November 25, 2011, it will be distributed in equal parts between
the last two literals.

All reassignments established in this regulation will have the character of
One-time departure in destination assignments.

Article 312.- Reassign in Item 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies", unit
executor 021 "Subsidies and Subsidies", program 320 "Strengthening the base
production of goods and services ", in the object of expenditure 559,003" Promotion Institute
Uruguay XXI Investment and Exportation ", the sum of $ 27,000,000 (twenty-seven million
Uruguayan pesos), from Financing 2.1 "External Indebtedness for Projects
Specific ", to Financing 1.1" General Income ".

Page 238

238

Article 313.- Eliminate budget allocations for organizations
detailed below:

Program

Inc.

Institution

400

fifteen

Los Zorzales Children's Home - San Carlos Women's Movement

400

fifteen

Lascanense Integral Help Association for the Disabled

400

fifteen

Disabled Association - Barros Blancos

400

fifteen

Social Defense League

400

fifteen

Foundations Project

400

fifteen

Day Center

The deletions provided in this article will finance the allocations
established in the following articles.

Article 314.- Increase in Subsection 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies" the credits
budget of the institutions listed, charged to Funding 1.1
"General Income", in amounts in national currency, programs and units
executing agencies that are detailed, for fiscal year 2019 and following:

Inc. Program

Institution

400

fifteen

400

fifteen

$

Support and Promotion of the Assistance Dog Foundation

80,000

(FUNDAPPAS)
National Association for the Crippled Child "Franklin Delano School
40,000

Roosevelt "

Page 239

239

Inc. Program

Institution

$

400

15 Autism Association in Uruguay

70,000

280

11 José Pedro Varela Popular Library

20,000

280

11 Torres García Museum

40,000

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will increase the credits in the objects of the
corresponding expense.

Article 315.- Assign in Section 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies" the credits
budgets that are listed, charged to Financing 1.1 "General Income", in
the amounts in national currency, programs and executing units that are detailed, in order to
fiscal year 2019 and following:

Program

Inc.

Institution

$

Commission Pro Social Welfare of the Elderly of Santa

400

fifteen

160,000

400

fifteen

Italian Home

160,000

400

fifteen

Day Center and Home for the Elderly "Don Joaquín"

160,000

400

fifteen

Keys Program

140,000

400

fifteen

New Paths Home Foundation

130,000

400

fifteen

Full Life Civil Association

120,000

400

fifteen

400

fifteen

280

eleven

rose

Civil Association "Cooperator of People

130,000

Different "COOPERDI
PGA shelter

110,000

Association of Friends of the Museum of the

120,000

Memory

Page 240

240

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will enable credits in the objects of expenditure
that correspond.

SECTION 23

MATCHES TO REAPPLY

Article 316.- Increase, in Section 23 "Items to be Reapplied", unit
executor 002 "General Accounting Office of the Nation", program 481 "Government Policy",
charged to Financing 1.1 "General Income", the budget credit for the purpose of the
expense 099,095 "Items for Remuneration Structure Recomposition", from
financial year 2019, destined to the payment of the Annual Assiduity Stimulus, in the
sum of $ 63,930,000 (sixty-three million nine hundred thirty thousand Uruguayan pesos).

The increase provided in the previous paragraph will be financed with the decrease, with
permanent nature, of the budgetary credits corresponding to group 0
"Personal Services", of the Clauses and for the amounts indicated in each case,
expressed at values ​as of January 1, 2018:

Incised

Amount $

02 - Presidency of the Republic

6,950,000

03 - Ministry of National Defense

5,300,000

04 - Ministry of the Interior

4,650,000

05 - Ministry of Economy and Finance

9,600,000

Page 241

241

Incised

Amount $

07 - Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries

6,780,000

08 - Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining

1,300,000

10 - Ministry of Transport and Public Works

11,550,000

11 - Ministry of Education and Culture

7,700,000

12 - Ministry of Public Health

200,000

13 - Ministry of Labor and Social Security

2,900,000

14 - Ministry of Housing, Territorial and Environment Planning
Atmosphere

1,700,000

15 - Ministry of Social Development

2,300,000

Total

60,930,000

Decrease in Item 12 "Ministry of Public Health", executing unit 001
"General Directorate of the Secretariat", program 441 "Rectory in Health", Project 972
"Computing", charged to Financing 1.1 "General Income" the sum of $ 3,000,000
(three million Uruguayan pesos).

Within the ninety days of validity of this law, the General Accounting Office of
the Nation, at the proposal of each Clause and with the prior advice of the Office
National Civil Service, will determine the objects of the expenditure to be reduced and the vacancies that
should be deleted.

It is granted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, so that once the term has expired
established in the previous paragraph, proceed to suppress in the first instance, the credits
budgetary that do not make up the endowment of the positions and in the second instance, the
vacancies in the lower grades of each executing unit with their respective credits,
until the amount to be decreased is reached.

Page 242

242

The General Assembly will be informed of what has been done.

Article 317.- Assign to Section 23 "Items to be Reapplied", Financing 1.1 "Income
Generals ", a one-time game for each of the 2018 and 2019 financial years, of
$ 670,000,000 (six hundred and seventy million Uruguayan pesos) and $ 540,000,000
(five hundred and forty million Uruguayan pesos) respectively, in compliance with the
Article 1 of Law No. 19,625, of June 11, 2018, and for the purpose of paying the
the fees established in the agreement referred to in said rule.

Assign to Section 23 "Items to Reapply", Financing 1.1 "General Income",
an item for fiscal year 2018 of $ 159,500,000 (one hundred and fifty-nine million
five hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos), and $ 169,000,000 (one hundred and sixty-nine million
Uruguayan pesos) incremental for fiscal year 2019, in order to meet the
salary increases of 5% (five percent) for each fiscal year, established in the
Agreement referred to by Law No. 19,625, of June 11, 2018.

Submit to the General Accounting Office of the Nation, prior communication of the Subsection and
favorable report from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to reallocate credits
necessary until compliance with the Agreement referred to in this standard. The
reallocation of the credits established in the second paragraph, will have the character
permanent.

If there are remnants of the items established in article 233 of the Law
Nº 19,535, of September 25, 2017, and in the provisions of this article, the
They may be used to finance the agreements signed by the Power of Attorney
Executive with other groups involved in this dispute.

The provisions of this article shall enter into force as of the promulgation

Page 243

243

of this law.

Article 318.- The normative publications of a mandatory nature in the Journal
Official who carry out Sections 02 to 15 of the National Budget will have the character
gratuitous.

Increase in Section 16 "Judicial Power", executing unit 101 "Judicial Power",
Program 202 "Provision of Justice Services", Financing 1.1 "General Income",
in $ 500,000 (five hundred thousand Uruguayan pesos) the item of operating expenses
destined to finance permanent training programs at the Centro de Estudios
Uruguayan judicial authorities in matters of Human Rights, as established in the
Article 236 of Law No. 18,834, of November 4, 2011.

Assign Section 16 "Judicial Power", executing unit 101 "Judicial Power",
Program 202 "Provision of Justice Services", Financing 1.1 "General Income",
an item of $ 3,805,603 (three million eight hundred five thousand six hundred three pesos
Uruguayans) in group 0 "Personal Services", destined to finance the hours
teachers who are dictated by judicial officials to implement the Law throughout the country
No. 19,580, of December 22, 2017, on "Violence against women based on
Gender".

Assign Section 16 "Judicial Power", executing unit 101 "Judicial Power",
Program 202 "Provision of Justice Services", Financing 1.1 "General Income",
an item of $ 3,080,850 (three million eighty thousand eight hundred fifty pesos
Uruguayans), in Operating Expenses, to meet accommodation expenses,
transfer and per diem of judicial officials who carry out training for the
implementation throughout the country of Law No. 19,580, of December 22, 2017, on
"Gender-based violence against women".

Page 244

244

Increase in Item 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies", executing unit 011
"Ministry of Education and Culture", the object of expenditure 519,006 "Funds Destined to
Educational Evaluation Institute ", for an amount of $ 1,513,547 (one million five hundred and thirteen
one thousand five hundred forty-seven Uruguayan pesos).

Increase in Item 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies", the credits
budgets that are listed under Financing 1.1 "General Income", in
the amounts in national currency, programs and executing units that are detailed, in order to
fiscal year 2019 and following:

Program

Incised

400

Institution

fifteen

$

Center "Dr. Jacobo Zibil" Florida 150,000

Assign in Item 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies", the budget credits
which are listed under Financing 1.1 "General Income", in the amounts in
national currency, programs and executing units that are detailed, for fiscal year 2019
And next:

Program

Incised

Institution

$

400

fifteen

Cadis Colonia Switzerland

150,000

400

fifteen

Down de Salto Association

200,000

400

13

Cuesta Duarte Institute

600,000

The General Accounting Office of the Nation will authorize the credits corresponding to the
preceding subsidies, in the corresponding objects of expenditure.
The allocation provided in the preceding paragraph will be financed with savings
generated by the provisions of the first paragraph of this article, decreasing
on a permanent basis the budgetary credits of the object of expenditure 299,000
"Non-personal services not included in the above", according to the following detail:

Page 245

245

Incised
02 - Presidency of the Republic
03 - Ministry of National Defense
04 - Ministry of the Interior
05 - Ministry of Economy and Finance
06 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs
07 - Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries
08 - Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining
10 - Ministry of Transport and Public Works
11 - Ministry of Education and Culture
12 - Ministry of Public Health
13 - Ministry of Labor and Social Security
14 - Ministry of Housing, Ordinance
Territorial and Environment
15 - Ministry of Social Development
Total

Amount $
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
1,000,000
500,000
500,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
500,000
10,000,000

SECTION 24

VARIOUS CREDITS

Article 319.- Increase in Item 24 "Various Credits", executing unit 024
"General Directorate of Secretariat (MEF)", Financing 1.1 "General Revenues", object of the
expenditure 298,000 "PPP Contracts Allocation", destined to meet the obligations
emerging from projects executed under the Public Participation modality
Private at 305,802,194 UI (three hundred five million eight hundred two thousand one hundred ninety
and four indexed units), item that must be executed by the corresponding
Items, according to the degree of progress of the projects.

Article 320.- The Executive Power is empowered to order the necessary transpositions

Page 246

246

to meet the obligations arising from the contracts corresponding to projects
of Public Private Participation from Item 24 "Various Credits", unit
executor 024 "General Directorate of the Secretariat (MEF)", towards the executing units,
programs and currencies that correspond, must have a previous and favorable report
of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

Authorize the General Accounting Office of the Nation to open the credits
in the billing currencies stipulated for each project, including those
credits that, on the date of promulgation of this law, have been assigned to the
corresponding executing units.

The provisions of this article will govern from the promulgation of this law.

Article 321.- Fines, surcharges, compensations or price differences
generated by non-compliance, in a timely manner, of the necessary procedures, in
timeliness of the obligations corresponding to contract payments in projects of
Public Private Participation, will be the responsibility of the contracting administration.

Authorize the Ministry of Economy and Finance, after a favorable report from the
Planning and Budget Office, to be reallocated from the budget credits of
investments of the Contracting Section towards the credits that finance the payment of
availability of the corresponding project.

Article 322.- It is established that, on the occasion of the payment of the obligations
emerging from the Public Private Participation contracts, the administrations
Public contracting parties must submit to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in the form,
opportunity and conditions that it establishes, contract compliance reports that
support the corresponding calculations and amounts.

Page 247

247

SECTION VII

RESOURCES

Article 323.- It is interpreted that the repeal of the third paragraph of Article 20 of the
Law No. 15,921, of December 17, 1987, established in Article 28 of the Law
No. 19,566, of December 8, 2017, refers to the legal norm that gave rise to it.

Article 324.- Add to Article 21 of Law No. 15,921, of December 17,
1987, the following subsection:

"The introduction of goods, merchandise and materials will not be considered export
premiums from non-free national territory to free zones, destined to satisfy
the final consumption of goods and services by staff in the areas where
opportunity to carry out their work activity within them, referred to in the
Article 37 of this law ".

Article 325.- The third paragraph of Article 20 of Title 4 of the Text is replaced
Ordered 1996, by the following:

"In the event that the expenses constitute for the counterpart income taxed by a
income tax abroad, the deduction will be 100% (one hundred percent) if
the effective rate was equal to or greater than that set by article 15 of this Title. Yes
the effective rate is lower, the corresponding proportion must be made, without
prejudice to the limit referred to in the preceding paragraphs. It will be presumed that the rate

Page 248

248

The effective rate is equal to the nominal rate, unless the existence of
special regimes for determining the tax base, exemptions and
similar that reduce the tax resulting from the application of said rate
nominal. The regulations will establish the documentation requirements and other
conditions in which the provisions of this article will operate ".

Article 326.- Substitute literal U) of Article 52 of Title 4 of the Ordered Text
1996, by the following:

"U) The interests of the public debt securities, as well as any other yield
of capital or capital increase, derived from the possession or transfer of
said instruments. This exemption will be optional. "

Article 327.- Repeal the fifth paragraph of Article 16 BIS of Title 7 of the Text
Ordered 1996.

Article 328.- Replace the fourth paragraph of Article 12 BIS of Title 8 of the Text
Ordered 1996, by the following:

"In no case may the amount taxed exceed the accumulated results as of
closing of the fiscal year of the IRAE taxpayer, deducting the amount to which
refers to section ii) of the preceding paragraph. For this purpose, the concept of results
accrued accounting gains and losses without
specific allocation, to legal reserves, statutory reserves and in general to
all those created in accordance with article 93 of Law No. 16,060, of 4
September 1989 ".

Page 249

249

Article 329.- The third paragraph of Article 80 of Title 10 of the Text is replaced
Ordered 1996, by the following:

"When the turn or nature of the activities makes it impossible, in the opinion of the
collection office the detailed documentation, it may accept or
establish special forms of documentation, being applicable in this case the
provided in the ninth paragraph of Article 9 of this Title ".

Article 330.- References made to the 1996 Ordained Text will be considered
made to the legal norms that gave rise to it.

Article 331.- Add to Article 24 of Law No. 18,930, of July 17, 2012, in
the wording given by article 215 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, the
following subsection:

"Let the Executive Power be empowered to incorporate into the payroll referred to in subsection
first to any other entity of a similar nature. "

Article 332.- Add to Article 1 of Law No. 19,484, of January 5, 2017, the
following subsection:

"Likewise, financial entities obliged to inform, the
trusts that are reputed financial entities by the country or jurisdiction of their
residence, and one or more of its trustees are residents for tax purposes in
Uruguay, except when they have provided the information referred to in the
present article to said country or jurisdiction and there is an agreement with them

Page 250

250

current international law on the exchange of information for the
tributaries ".

Article 333.- The acquisitions of real estate under any title that the
Departmental Governments carry out dissolved companies or entities in application of
the provisions of Law No. 19,288, of September 26, 2014, within the framework of programs
regularization of irregular settlements, will be exempted from the controls
registry and notary in tax matters and those arranged in application of the Law
No. 18,930, of July 17, 2012, and Law No. 19,288, of September 26, 2014.

In the hypotheses provided for in the preceding paragraph, the
responsibilities that different legal norms establish with respect to the acquirers,
authorizers and registrars.

It will be a necessary condition for the application of the provisions of this article,
have the declaration of the respective Departmental Government, notified to the Directorate
General Tax, the Social Security Bank and the Internal Audit of the Nation, of
that it is an operation carried out within the framework of the policy of regularization of
irregular settlements and lots with or without services.

SECTION VIII

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Article 334.- Substitute, as of the promulgation of this law, the article

Page 251

251

2 of Law No. 17,947, of January 8, 2006, in the wording given by Article 184 of
Law No. 19,438, of October 14, 2016, by the following:

"ARTICLE 2.- In accordance with the provisions of numeral 6) of Article 85 of the
Constitution of the Republic, authorize the Executive Power to issue Public Debt
National provided that the increase in the net public debt at the close of each
fiscal year with respect to the last business day of the previous year, do not exceed the following
amounts:

A) 16,000,000,000 IU (sixteen billion indexed units) in the
exercise 2015.

B) 21,000,000,000 IU (twenty-one billion indexed units) in the
exercise 2016.

C) 17,000,000,000 IU (seventeen billion indexed units) in the
financial year 2017.

D) 16,500,000,000 IU (sixteen thousand five hundred million units
indexed) in 2018.

E) 14,000,000,000 IU (fourteen billion indexed units) in the
financial year 2019.

F) 13,500,000,000 IU (thirteen thousand five hundred million indexed units) a
as of financial year 2020.

Page 252

252

When there are adverse climatic situations that determine that the
National Administration of Power Plants and Electric Transmission (UTE), must assume
extraordinary costs for power generation, the cap referred to in subsection
above may be additionally increased by up to a maximum equivalent
to 1.5% (one with five percent) of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In no
case, for the purposes set forth in this article, extraordinary costs
incurred by UTE, added to the variation of the Stabilization Fund
Energy (Article 773 of Law No. 18,719, of December 27, 2010) may
exceed 1.5% (one with five percent) of GDP. The Executive Branch will account
of what was acted on to the General Assembly ".

Article 335.- The surplus of the Energy Stabilization Fund determined from
according to articles 1 and 2 of Law No. 19,620, of May 17, 2018, transferred to
General Income, will be used to finance the expenses detailed below.

In the first place, to Subsection 25 "National Public Education Administration", the
sum of $ 200,000,000 (two hundred million Uruguayan pesos) annually for
investments for two consecutive years. Submit to the General Accounting Office of the Nation,
prior favorable report from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to enable credits
corresponding.

Second, the balance will be used to finance both expropriations and
the execution of additional works and advances on account of the Availability Payment,
derived from the awarding processes of the Infrastructure Project "Ferrocarril
Central ". It must be filed with the General Accounting Office of the Nation, after a favorable report from the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, to enable the corresponding credits based on the
cadence of the works and up to the balance of the surplus transferred to General Revenue.

The provisions of this article shall govern from the promulgation of this
law.

Page 253

253

Article 336.- The National Port Administration may require insurance and
guarantees that you consider pertinent prior to the assignment of docks, buoys or any
type of berth for ships requesting a long stay.

In the case of fishing vessels requesting extended stay, the agency or
shipowner or representative must submit to the National Ports Administration a
bank guarantee or insurance, paid in full, that guarantee that the vessel will
abandonment of the berth within the term granted, for an amount equivalent to six months of the
docking or anchoring fee. If the boat is not removed in said
term, the guarantee constituted prior notice will be executed with a term of ten
days.

If the guarantee is not kept in force during the stay of the ship or in case of
execute the same, will proceed immediately to arrange the procedures
tending to the declaration of abandonment of the ship, except that the delay in
sail due to weather reasons that prevent operation.

Article 337.- Declared enabled, as a Port Interest Area, the one constituted
along the seafront that stretches between the resorts Mar del Plata and La Florida,
defined by the geographic coordinates South latitude 34º32 "17.00", West longitude
54º03 "38.00", South latitude 34º27 "20.57" and West longitude 53º54 "51.89", which is part of
the area called "Entre Cabos" on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean, in the department
of Rocha.

Article 338.- The third paragraph of article 15 of Law No. 16,246, of 8
April 1992, by the following:

Page 254

254

"The Captain of the Port of Montevideo will have the same remuneration as
corresponds to the Vocal Director of the Board of the National Administration of
Ports ".

Article 339.- Substitute Article 339 of Law No. 13,318, of December 28,
1964, in the wording given by Article 2 of Law No. 18,728, of January 5, 2011,
by the following:

"ARTICLE 339.- The patrimony administered by the Honorary Commission constitutes
the Health Insurance Fund created by article 337 of this law and is
integrates with the following resources:

A) With a contribution, from the Administration of the Sanitary Works of the
State (OSE), 0.625% (zero six hundred twenty-five percent), of
what it pays to its officials as salaries with character
remuneration, which said body will pour into the Fund at the opportunity of
make them effective.

B) Other contributions received for inheritances, bequests,
donations or special contributions.

C) The civil fruits of their assets.

D) The resources that may come from the administration management by the
Honorary Administrative Commission of the Health Insurance Fund for
Officials from OSE (CHASSFOSE), from recreational centers or
OSE and CHASSFOSE vacation ".

Page 255

255

Article 340.- The National Institute of Colonization is authorized to dispose of the
following urban and suburban properties that you own, which are considered
dispensable for the fulfillment of their substantive duties:

Register No. 11,153 of the Cadastral Town Melo of the department of Cerro
Long.

Register Nº 1,581 of the Paysandú Cadastral Locality of the department of
Paysandú.

Register No. 20 Unit 003 of the José Enrique Rodó del
Soriano department.

Register No. 301 of the Sarandí Grande Cadastral Locality of the department of
Florida.

The proceeds of said sales will be used to acquire real estate to be
designated regional headquarters in the same locations or for repairs or
Extraordinary extensions in other offices of the Entity in the interior of the country.

Article 341.- Article 37 of Law No. 18,602, of September 21,
2009, by the following:

Page 256

256

"ARTICLE 37.- The shareholding of the National Corporation for the
Development in companies incorporated for the purposes of the provision of
services provided for by article 11 of Law No. 15,785, of December 4,
1985, and modifications, will be a minority, unless expressly authorized by the Ministry
of Economy and Finance ".

Article 342.- Substitute literals C), D) and E) of Article 11 of the Law.
No. 15,785, of December 4, 1985, in the wording given by articles 34 of the Law
No. 18,602, of September 21, 2009, and Article 345 of Law No. 18,996, of September 7,
November 2012, by the following:

"C) Create or acquire commercial companies, establish consortiums and trusts,
enter into agreements with public or private entities, for the purposes of the
carrying out infrastructure works or provision of services associated with
these.

D) Identify areas of opportunity in public infrastructure and related services.
Prepare and promote investment projects, provide consulting services,
analyze and structure projects for the public or private sector, related to
its area of ​competence.

E) Provide fiduciary and fund administration services, human resources
or accounting and financial administration, on behalf of third parties. Of the agreements
or decisions that imply the execution of this task with public funds are
will inform the Ministry of Economy and Finance ".

Article 343.- Replace Article 19 of Law No. 19,472, of December 23,
2016, by the following:

Page 257

257

"ARTICLE 19.- All the references made in the laws or decrees, relative to
Bodies or organizations that are members of the National Transformation System
Productive and Competitiveness, to the Ministerial Cabinet of Innovation,
will understand as carried out the Ministerial Cabinet of Productive Transformation
and Competitiveness.

The Secretariat of Science and Technology, created by article 34 of the Law
No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015, and the Ministry of Transformation
Productive and Competitiveness, they will coordinate in order to ensure a scope and
comprehensive vision for the preparation of proposals to the Executive Power on
objectives, policies and strategies in the field of science, technology and innovation,
according to the respective scope provided in the legislation.

The Executive Power will define mechanisms for close coordination between the
bodies with powers in science, technology and innovation,
including the participation of the head of the Ministry of Science and
Technology in the meetings of the Ministerial Cabinet of Transformation
Productive and Competitiveness ".

Article 344.- The second paragraph of Article 378 of Law No. 19,149, of
October 24, 2013, by the following:

"Its purpose will be to receive and transmit customs declarations, without prejudice to
other means of electronic transmission, and to unify in a single point of entry, to
through electronic means, permits, certificates, licenses and others
authorizations, documents and information, which are required before and by the
public bodies to comply with the import, export and
transit of merchandise ".

Page 258

258

Article 345.- Replace the first paragraph of Article 3 of Law No. 17,792, of 14
of July 2004, by the following:

"Exonerate the foundation that is constituted from all national tributes and all
legal provision of a pecuniary nature directly linked to its object ".

Article 346.- The State Sanitary Works Administration, contractors and
the consulting firms involved in the execution of the works and supplies for the
carrying out the effluent treatment works, their final disposal and
sanitation networks of the Ciudad del Plata System, metropolitan area of ​Montevideo,
will have in the pertinent, the tax treatment established by articles 490 to 492 of
Law No. 18,362, of October 6, 2008.

Article 347.- It is established that potentially dangerous products for health
human beings or the environment, entered the country, must comply with the same
conditions that are required of national manufacturers of said products, without
detriment to compliance with the specific conditions relating to the entry and deposit of
the merchandise in the port area, its subsequent collection, deposit, distribution and
marketing outside of it.

The Executive Power will regulate this provision.

Article 348.- Extend until December 31, 2020 the term established in the
Articles 742 to 744 of Law No. 19,355, of December 19, 2015.

Article 349.- The Executive Power is empowered to implement equitably between
Montevideo and the rest of the departments a subsidy destined to support the transition

Page 259

259

initial towards more efficient and sustainable technologies in the collective public transport of
passengers nationwide by replacing up to 4% (four percent) of their
fleet of buses with diesel engine per bus with electric motorization.

The subsidy will be directed to the operators of collective public transport of
passengers from all over the country who are interested in replacing a bus
diesel by a bus with electric motorization, according to the criteria defined in the
regulation, and will be executed in Section 24 "Various Credits", executing unit 024
"General Directorate of Secretariat (MEF)".

The subsidy may not exceed the gap between the acquisition cost of a
Electric motorized bus and the cost of acquiring a motorized bus
diesel; may not exceed 410,000 IU (four hundred and ten thousand indexed units)
per unit per year, nor may it have a term greater than seven years.

For the purposes of granting the subsidy provided for in this article, the Power of Attorney
Executive will act advised by a Technical Commission made up of a representative of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining, the
Ministry of Transport and Public Works and the Ministry of Housing, Planning
Territorial and Environment. Said Technical Committee will interact with the regulators of the
system of collective public transport of passengers, as well as with the National Institute of
Cooperativism.

The Executive Power will dictate the corresponding regulations.

Article 350.- Add to article 79 of Title 4 of the 1996 Ordained Text, the
following numeral:

Page 260

260

"7) Other institutions not included in the previous numerals.

A) Gonzalo Rodríguez Foundation. The National Security Unit
Vial (UNASEV) will inform about the convenience of the projects that
are financed with donations to that institution ".

Article 351.- Add to Article 79 of Title 4 (Income Tax of the
Economic Activities - Chapter XIII Special Donations) of the 1996 Ordained Text,
the following literals in the numerals that are detailed:

2) Tertiary education and research:

K) Uruguayan Foundation for Disease Research
Rare (FUPIER).

3) Health:

L) Spanish Home.

M) Corazoncitos Foundation.

N) Alejandra Forlán Foundation.

Page 261

261

Ñ) Ronald Mc Donalds Foundation.

O) Uruguayan Diabetic Association.

P) Pro Association for Intellectual Disabilities (APRODI).

Q) Home Amelia Ruano de Schiaffino.

R) Opportunity Foundation.

S) Administration of State Health Services: Unit
"Education, prevention and diagnosis of school health".

T) Clarita Berenbau Foundation.

U) Kangaroo Foundation.

4) Support for children and adolescents:

K) Pablo de Tarso Foundation.

L) América Civil Association - Foundations Project.

Page 262

262

M) Achievements Foundation.

N) Celeste Foundation.

Ñ) Teaches Uruguay.

7) Other institutions not included in the previous numerals:

B) Association of Family Members of Crime Victims (ASFAVIDE).
The Office of the Attorney General of the Nation will report on the
convenience of projects that are financed with donations to
this institution.

C) Un Techo para Uruguay Civil Association. The Ministry of Housing,
Territorial Planning and Environment, will report on the
convenience of projects that are financed with donations to
this institution.

Article 352.- The second paragraph of Article 78 of Title 4 of the Text is replaced
Ordered 1996:

"The Executive Power may establish caps on the total amounts allocated to the
execution of projects under this regime, which may not exceed an amount
annual maximum of $ 436,000,000 (four hundred thirty-six million pesos

Page 263

263

Uruguayans), which may be adjusted annually by up to the variation of the
indexed unit from the previous year ".

Article 353.- Substitute article 3 of Law Nº 17,829, of September 18,
2004, in the wording given by the sole article of Law No. 19,536, of September 27
of 2017, by the following:

"ARTICLE 3.- No natural person may receive by way of remuneration
salary or passivity an amount in money less than 35% (thirty-five per
percent) of the nominal amount, deducting income taxes and their
corresponding advances, and special social security contributions.

In the case of the withholdings provided for in literal A) of article 1 of the
present law, in the wording given by article 32 of Law No. 19,210, of 29
April 2014, and those corresponding to the cooperative acts referred to
literal G) thereof, said percentage will be 30% (thirty percent) ".

Article 354.- Substitute literal A) of Article 3 of Law No. 16,524, of 25 December.
July 1994, in the wording given by Article 1 of Law No. 19,589, of 28
December 2017, by the following:

"A) That the taxpayer has accessed a retirement provided by the Caja de
Retirement and Pensions of University Professionals (Article 73 of Law No.
17,738, of January 7, 2004), or by the Notarial Fund (article 52 of Law No.
17,437, of December 20, 2001), or by the Retirement and Pension Fund
Bank, or by the Social Security Bank that includes the activities
professionals who motivate contributions to the Solidarity Fund, provided that in all
In the above cases, termination of all paid professional activity that has
direct relationship with the professional or tertiary training of graduates of the

Page 264

264

University of the Republic, of the Council of Professional Technical Education and
the Technological University ".

Article 355.- Replace the final paragraph of the first paragraph of Article 542 of the Law.
Nº 17.296, of February 21, 2001, in the wording given by article 7 of the Law
Nº 17,451, of January 10, 2002, by the following:

"This additional must be paid after the fifth year of discharge
until some of the conditions established for the cessation of the
contributions to the Solidarity Fund (Article 3 of Law No. 16,524, of July 25
1994) ".

Article 356.- Add, as a third paragraph of Article 78 of Title 4 of the Text
Ordered 1996, the following:

"You may also set individual limits for each beneficiary entity or group of
entities of a similar nature, as well as by donor. The maximum cap per
beneficiary entity may not exceed 15% (fifteen percent) of the amount
annual maximum set in the previous paragraph, except in the case of those that in the
year 2018 would have received donations, authorized by the Executive Power, by
a higher amount, in which case the same authorized amount can be maintained
in said year, which may be adjusted annually by up to the variation of the
indexed unit from the previous year. In all cases, the maximum limit per
beneficiary entity will be subject to the analysis and control of the Executive Power for its
fixation".

Article 357.- Assign the budgetary credits charged to Financing 1.1,
"General Income", for the amounts in national currency that are detailed:

Page 265

265

1) In Section 25 "National Public Education Administration", for an amount
annual of $ 82,000,000 (eighty-two million Uruguayan pesos) to cover
personal services and other operating expenses associated with new
educational spaces.

2) In Item 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation", executing unit 001 "Office of the Prosecutor
General de la Nación ", for an amount of $ 3,332,417 (three million three hundred
thirty-two thousand four hundred seventeen Uruguayan pesos) in 2018, and
increase in fiscal year 2019 in the sum of $ 10,667,583 (ten million
six hundred sixty-seven thousand five hundred eighty-three Uruguayan pesos) with
destined to the creation of two Departmental Prosecutor's Offices according to the following detail:

Purpose of the Expenditure

2018

098,000

3,332,417

2019
9,997,252

284,003

291,864

284,004

22,992

198,000

355,475

Total

3,332,417

10,667,583

Allowances for salaries include bonuses and charges
legal.

Create the following charges, which will be financed with the allocations in the
first paragraph of this numeral:

- Two positions of Departmental Attorney at the "N" level.

- Four positions of Assigned Attorney Attorney at the "N" level.

Page 266

266

- Two positions of Administrative I ladder "AD" grade II.

The Office of the Attorney General of the Nation will determine the location and date of installation
of the new Departmental Prosecutor's Offices created by this provision and
set the shift regime.

The provisions of this numeral will enter into force as of the
promulgation of this law.

3) In Item 21 "Subsidies and Subsidies", executing unit 012 "Ministry of
Public Health ", in the object of expenditure 553,038" Rehabilitation Center
Maldonado - CEREMA ", an annual item of $ 4,000,000 (four million
Uruguayan pesos), which will be subject to the subscription and fulfillment of a
agreement with the Ministry of Public Health and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, with the aim of contributing to the improvement of management and sustainability
financial center.

The increases established in the numerals of this article will be financed
as follows:

A) Decrease, on a permanent basis, budget credits
corresponding to operating expenses, in the Clauses and for the amounts in
Uruguayan pesos indicated in each case:

Page 267

267

Incised

Amount

02 - Presidency of the Republic

15,000,000

03 - Ministry of National Defense

23,000,000

04 - Ministry of the Interior
05 - Ministry of Economy and Finance

8,000,000
28,000,000

06 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs

2,000,000

07 - Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries

6,000,000

08 - Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining

2,000,000

09 - Ministry of Tourism

2,000,000

10 - Ministry of Transport and Public Works

3,000,000

11 - Ministry of Education and Culture

3,000,000

12 - Ministry of Public Health

2,000,000

13 - Ministry of Labor and Social Security

1,000,000

14 - Ministry of Housing, Land Management and Environment

3,000,000

15 - Ministry of Social Development

2,000,000

Total

100,000,000

In order to comply with the provisions above, in Section 02
"Presidency of the Republic" may decrease credits corresponding to
operating expenses of Item 24 "Various Credits", executing unit 02
"Presidency of the Republic".

Within the forty-five days of validity of this law, each subsection
mentioned in literal A) of this article, after a favorable report from the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, will determine the objects of spending to decrease.
Once the term has expired, the General Accounting Office of the Nation is authorized to suppress the
budget credits for the established amount.

B) Decrease, in Item 33 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation", unit
executor 001 "Office of the Attorney General of the Nation", program 200 "Advice,
cooperation and representation ", in Financing 1.1" General Income ", object
of expenditure 299,000 "Other personal services not included in the above", for

Page 268

268

an amount of $ 3,332,417 (three million three hundred thirty-two thousand four hundred
seventeen Uruguayan pesos) in 2018.

Article 358.- In the event of verifying in 2019 higher income than those foreseen in the
financial economic report and message of this law, and provided that the evolution of
expenditure has resulted in an improvement in the structural result of the public sector
consolidated regarding the provisions of said report, the Executive Power is empowered to
to allocate the referred surplus resources to the financing of
salary increases in Sections 25 "National Public Education Administration" and
26 "University of the Republic", for up to 3.5% (three and a half percent) of the mass
wage. If the aforementioned situation occurs, the Executive Power will notify the Assembly
General assignments made.

