Page 1

RESOLUTION
CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
ON APPROVAL OF THE REGULATIONS ON THE ORGANIZATION PROCEDURE
ACTIVITIES OF INFORMATION INTERMEDIARIES-ORGANIZERS
ELECTRONIC FAIRS, AUCTIONS AND COMPETITIONS
In order to accelerate the development of e-commerce in the Republic of Uzbekistan, as well as
creating additional favorable conditions for the development of activities
information intermediaries and e-commerce participants Cabinet of Ministers
decides:
1. To approve the Regulation on the procedure for organizing the activities of information
intermediaries - organizers of electronic fairs, auctions and competitions according to
application.
2. Control over the implementation of this resolution shall be entrusted to the first deputy
Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan R.S. Azimov.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Sh. Mirziyoyev
g.
Tash
Kent,
2
Aug
one hundred
2016
g.,
No.
249
APPENDIX
ENE
to
decided
eniyu
Cabinet
Ministro
from 2
August
2016 year
No. 249

POSITION

Page 2

on the procedure for organizing the activities of information intermediaries organizers of electronic fairs, auctions and competitions
I. General Provisions
1. This Regulation determines the procedure for organizing the activities of information
intermediaries - organizers of electronic fairs (including exhibition and fair
trade), auctions and competitions.
See previous edition.

2. This Regulation does not apply to the conclusion of the participants
e-commerce transactions using proprietary information systems,
public procurement, as well as for activities:
(the first paragraph of clause 2 as amended by the resolutionPresident of the Republic of Uzbekistan from 30
December 2020 No. PP-4938 - National database of legislation, December 31, 2020, No.
07/20/4938/1680)

organizers of electronic exchange and over-the-counter trade in goods of a certain
kind and quality, including derivative financial instruments (derivatives);
on the organization of electronic government and corporate procurement;
organizers of e-commerce in real estate;
information intermediaries providing services to e-commerce participants,
not related to the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages when
concluding transactions between e-commerce participants.
3. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following concepts are used:
agent - e-commerce participant-legal entity accredited
information intermediary and providing intermediary to sellers and buyers
services in e-commerce on the basis of a commission agreement or an agreement
commissions;
acceptance - a response of the person to whom the offer is addressed, about its acceptance;
information intermediary - a legal entity carrying out the organization
electronic fairs (including trade fair trade), auctions and
contests;
information system - information system of an information intermediary,
organizationally

orderly

aggregate

information

resources,

information technology and communication facilities, allowing the collection, storage,
search, processing and use of information to conclude deals based on results
holding electronic fairs (including exhibition and fair trade), auctions
and competitions;

Page 3

offeror - an e-commerce participant who has placed an offer in the information
information intermediary system (the seller - when selling the goods, the buyer when purchasing goods);
offer - an offer addressed to one person, several specific persons or
to an indefinite circle of persons, containing all the essential terms of the contract, from which
the will of the person making the offer is seen to conclude an agreement on the
offering terms with anyone who responds;
information intermediary rules - local act of information intermediary
(rules for conducting electronic fairs (including exhibition and fair trade),
auctions and competitions), which determines the procedure for organizing e-commerce with
using the information system of the information intermediary;
goods - goods, work and (or) service that are not withdrawn from civil circulation and are
the subject of an e-commerce transaction.
II. Rights and obligations of information intermediaries
4. An information intermediary has the right:
determine the conditions for the provision of services to e-commerce participants and the prices for their
services, with the exception of cases established by law;
establish information intermediary rules and requirements for participants
ecommerce;
suspend the provision of services to e-commerce participants in the event
violation of the established rules, the presence of an e-commerce participant
outstanding debt to the information intermediary and (or) participants
ecommerce;
provide e-commerce participants with informational, educational,
consulting, logistic and other additional services related to
e-commerce;
create joint databases with other information intermediaries, including
including registers of unscrupulous e-commerce participants.
Information intermediaries may have other rights in accordance with
legislation and agreement.
5. An information intermediary is not entitled to:
become a party to a transaction concluded using its information
systems, as well as to carry out production, trade, trade and intermediary
or other activities not related to the provision of services as information
mediator;

Page 4

interfere in the process of implementing e-commerce, pricing when
concluding deals, restrict the freedom of e-commerce participants when choosing
counterparties and the conclusion of transactions, as well as otherwise restrict the rights of participants
ecommerce.
6. The information intermediary is obliged to:
comply with legislation, including standards, norms and rules in the field
ecommerce;
disclose to e-commerce participants information about their full
name, organizational and legal form, services provided, their conditions
provision and cost (tariffs);
do not change the content of electronic documents and electronic messages, their order
use, with the exception of cases stipulated by agreements with participants
ecommerce;
provide security measures for electronic documents, electronic messages and
personal data from unauthorized access;
not to transfer electronic documents and electronic messages to third parties, for
except for cases provided by law or contract;
ensure the storage of electronic documents and electronic messages in
compliance with the law;
place your information system on servers located on the territory
Republic of Uzbekistan.
Information intermediaries may have other responsibilities in accordance with
legislation and agreement.
7. The information intermediary is obliged to ensure the placement and disclosure on his
the official website for the following information and documents:
regulations governing electronic commerce in the Republic
Uzbekistan;
the text of the public contract for the provision of services to e-commerce participants;
the rules of the information intermediary and the text of local acts that have mandatory
force for e-commerce participants;
current tariffs for the provision of services for the use of its information system;
other information, the mandatory disclosure of which is provided for by law.
8. Information intermediary:
is not obliged to control or verify the accuracy of the transmitted, received and
stored electronic documents and electronic messages, as well as their compliance
legislation, unless otherwise provided by legislation or agreement;

Page 5

is not responsible for legal consequences related to the content
the electronic documents transmitted to them and electronic messages of the participants
ecommerce.
III. E-commerce participants
9. Sellers of goods (works, services) in e-commerce using
information

systems

are

legal

faces

and individual

entrepreneurs.
10. Buyers of goods (works, services) in e-commerce using
information systems can be legal entities and individuals.
11. The information system must obligatorily provide registration and
identification of e-commerce participants.
12. Participation in e-commerce using information systems
carried out by the seller and the buyer independently or through agents.
13. The agent is obliged to maintain the confidentiality of information that became known to him in
as a result of the provision of services to the seller or buyer.
In this case, the agent does not have the right to simultaneously represent the interests of the seller and the buyer in
within one transaction.
14. The relationship of e-commerce participants and information
intermediaries are determined by the terms of a public contract posted in a free
access to the information system.
15. The information intermediary is not liable to third parties for
obligations of e-commerce participants, including under contracts,
prisoners using his information system, except in cases where
when such responsibility is provided for by a public contract and (or) rules
information intermediary.
E-commerce participants are not liable for obligations
information intermediary.
16. The information intermediary has the right to ensure the delivery of goods, to guarantee
fulfillment of obligations of e-commerce participants in the manner prescribed
information intermediary rules.
In the event that for the provision of additional services related to electronic
commerce, legislation provides for a license or other document
permissive nature, and also established the requirements that must
match the person providing such services, information intermediary

Page 6

must have a license (permitting document) and (or) comply
established requirements.
IV. The procedure for organizing e-commerce
17. Transactions using information systems of information intermediaries
can be in competitive or non-competitive forms.
18. Competitive forms of concluding transactions are the forms of organization
e-commerce, in which the information system of the information
the intermediary provides the following conditions:
the possibility of acceptance of the offer by at least two e-commerce participants;
conclusion of an agreement with the person who offered the best conditions for the offeror
execution of the contract.
If the specified conditions are met, the transaction is deemed to have taken place.
When making transactions in competitive forms, the execution by the person who received the offer,
within the period established for its acceptance, actions to fulfill the conditions specified in it
contract (shipment of goods, provision of services, performance of work, payment
the corresponding amount, etc.) is not an acceptance.
19. When using competitive forms of e-commerce, the price of the contract
is determined by comparing the competitive offers of potential
participants and selection of the best offer for the offeror.
20. The price of an agreement concluded using competitive forms of electronic
commerce, is recognized as a market, provided that access to
submitting competing bids to two or more potential participants within
not less than 24 hours from the moment of placing the offer.
21. When using non-competitive forms of e-commerce, the transaction is concluded
the offeror with anyone who responds to his offer by accepting the offer,
located in the information system.
22. When using non-competitive forms of e-commerce, the price of the contract
is determined at the level established by the offer.
23. The information system should provide for automatic registration
transactions.
24. Registration by an information intermediary is not allowed:
amendments and additions to the agreement concluded as a result of the transaction concluded in
information system using competitive forms;
transactions made outside of its information system;

Page 7

transactions that, in accordance with the law, are subject to mandatory
state registration and (or) notarization.
25.

Electronic

commerce

carried out

in

conformity

from rules

information intermediary, approved in accordance with those adopted by
information intermediary procedures.
26. The rules of the information intermediary should be established in advance, be
the same for all e-commerce participants and without fail
should contain:
the rights and obligations of an information intermediary;
requirements for e-commerce participants, the procedure for their admission to the commission
transactions, their rights and obligations;
the procedure for registration and identification of an e-commerce participant;
the procedure for organizing e-commerce, concluding transactions, processing and
registration of contracts;
the procedure for setting prices based on the results of transactions in the information system
information intermediary;
procedure for fulfilling obligations under concluded contracts, organizing settlements
(payment for the goods and their delivery);
the procedure for disclosing information on completed transactions, measures to protect official and
commercial secrets of e-commerce participants;
a provision on liability for violation of the rules of an information intermediary;
measures to protect the interests of e-commerce participants and liability
information intermediary for their violation;
permissible purposes and conditions of use by the information intermediary of personal
data of the e-commerce participant, as well as measures of responsibility for their
violation;
the procedure for considering disputes and disagreements arising in the process of electronic
commerce,

carried out

from using

information

systems

information intermediary.
Information intermediary rules can also contain:
the procedure for accreditation of agents providing services to e-commerce participants
on participation in e-commerce, a set of requirements for them;
the rights and obligations of agents;
the procedure and conditions for the provision of performance guarantees by the information intermediary
transactions made using its information system;
other provisions in accordance with the law.

Page 8

27. The rights and obligations under the transaction concluded in the information system arise from
parties from the moment of electronic registration of the transaction in the information system, unless otherwise
not provided by law.
V. Final provisions
28. In e-commerce, carried out using information
systems of information intermediaries, it is not allowed:
discrimination of e-commerce participants, providing one participant
e-commerce benefits or preferences not provided for by law,
inaccessible to other participants;
decision-making by officials of information intermediaries under the influence
personal interest, or other illegal actions to the detriment of interests
e-commerce participants;
putting pressure on e-commerce participants, disclosing information about
participation in e-commerce (except as provided
legislation), unlawful non-admission, restriction or elimination
competition;
collusion of e-commerce participants to change market conditions
or price distortions;
provision or dissemination of inaccurate or distorted information, and
also unreasonable restriction of access to information;
submission of applications by e-commerce participants for artificially low or
inflated prices, with the subsequent refusal to sign the contract or from it
execution in a proper manner;
the execution of transactions, one of the parties to which is an individual, not
duly registered as an individual entrepreneur,
selling or offering for sale goods, performance of work, provision of services with
using information systems of an information intermediary.
29. Persons guilty of violation of this Regulation are responsible for
in the manner prescribed by law.

(Collected Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 31, Art. 378; National base
data of legislation, 31.12.2020, No. 07/20/4938/1680)

