Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

×

Formulation of open data,

DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES AND COMMUNICATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
THE MINISTER
ORDER

placing and processing them

FORMATION, PLACEMENT AND PROCESSING OF OPEN DATA
ON APPROVAL OF REGULATION

on approval of regulations
APPENDIX
Formulation of open data,
place them and reassemble
performance regulations
Chapter 1. General rules
Chapter 2. Basic of the portal operator
functions

2746 28.12.2015

Own | Ru

[Registered by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan on December 28, 2015 No. 2746]
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated August 7, 2015 No 232 "Presentation of public information
Measures to further improve the Government Portal of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the Internet
In accordance with the resolution "On measures"
1. To approve Regulations on formation, placement and processing of open data according to appendix.
2. This order becomes effective from the date of official publication.

Chapter 3 Open data
registration of packages
formats and rules,
as well as included in them
to be included in the information
requirements

Minister X. MIRZAKHIDOV
Tashkent,
November 27, 2015,
141-mh-son

Chapter 4 Open data
passport of the package
clearance formats and
requirements to the rules
Chapter 5 Open data
Posting on the Portal and on the Portal
placed open data
Portal in order to work with
operator, suppliers and
user interaction
The partnership is also open
information on the portal
placement order
Chapter 6 Open data
package and open data
Internet passport of the package
rules of placement in the network
Chapter 7 The final rule
APPENDIX
Open data set
a sample of filling out the passport

Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
technologies and communications
Minister of Development 27
to Order No. 141-mh of November
APPENDIX

Formulation, placement and processing of open data
REGULATIONS
This Regulation is entitled “Transparency of the activity of public authorities and administration of the Republic of Uzbekistan
"On the Law and the Cabinet of Ministers No. 232 of August 7, 2015," Open data
The Governmental portal of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the Internet
Formation, placement and processing of open data in accordance with the Resolution "On measures to improve"
determines the order of operation.
Chapter 1. General rules
1. The following main concepts are used in this Regulation:
Open Data Portal of the Republic of Uzbekistan (hereinafter referred to as the Portal) - Internet
operating within the Government Portal of the Republic of Uzbekistan in the field of public and economic administration
bodies, open data of local state authorities (hereinafter referred to as state bodies)
Portal operator, open when publishing and using open data, intended for placement
software and hardware that enables interaction between data providers and users
information resource consisting of a set of tools;
open data - the Internet in a machine - readable format for multiple, free and unrestricted use
information on the activities of government agencies posted on the network;
machine - readable format - providing this information, allowing the software to process the data
electronic format of delivery;
open data set - a set of elements of the same type of open data and the attributes that characterize them;
open data set passport - the ability to identify the open data set in the same way
a set of information about this package provided by the issuer;
Portal Operator - Activities related to the use of the Portal, including information in the Portal databases
the legal entity carrying out processing - Information technologies and communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan
e-Government Development Center under the Ministry of Development;
open data provider (hereinafter referred to as the supplier in the text) - to the Portal operator
A government agency that provides open data sets for posting on the portal;
users - individuals and legal entities who have access to open data using the Portal;
open data set registry - search for open data sets in automated mode and
obtain their basic parameters, including the links required to use open data sets
a structured list of open data sets that allow;
The Open Data section is the country in which only open data sets are published
section of the official website of the authorities.
2. Open data is created by state bodies in connection with the performance of their functions and powers,
accumulated and stored.
Chapter 2. The main functions of the portal operator
3. The main tasks of the Portal Operator are:
Open data in accordance with the requirements of information security, including the uninterrupted operation of the portal
Ensuring storage and protection on the portal;
Open data sets generated by suppliers in machine-readable format on the Portal,
ensure that open data is placed without restrictions that prevent re-use;
Provide continuous access to open data users posted on the portal;
creation, registration and publication on the Portal of passports of open data sets;
Relevant delivery of information messages from incoming users using the software and hardware of the portal
to providers for processing and review no later than the day following the day the messages were received from the user
send;
Constant monitoring of the relevance of open data sets published on the portal;
Ensuring the publication of statistics on open data sets, which are in high demand on the portal;
Notify the supplier in case of delay in updating the open data set on the portal.
Chapter 3 Formats and rules of registration of open data sets, as well as included in them
information content requirements
4. Open data sets are presented in the state language using the Latin alphabet. Open data
The kits are also available in other languages ​in addition to the possibility of placing them and the availability of technical means
can be done.
5. Open data sets must meet the following requirements of the formats and rules of their registration
need:
must be published in machine-readable format (XLSX, CSV, XML, JSON, PDF). Flat table in CSV format
data with the form should be published, in which case the use of the line-moving symbol in the text is not allowed.
It is necessary to publish complex hierarchical data in XML format;
published in cases where large volumes, frequent updates, or the need to formulate specific selections are required
must be provided through a programming interface with a specification. This is done automatically from an open data set
a complete description of the programming interface on the open data set page, which is sufficient to make it usable
(protocol specifications, data format, initial parameters of service usage, etc.)
should be cited;
the ability to automatically access data from open data sets through a programming interface
must be provided;
the number of versions of the open data set to be stored, taking into account the needs of users,
determined based on resource capacity for storage;
the structure of open data sets display a description of each information area of ​the open data set
should;
the versionability of the structure when the structure of the open data set is changed and the openness of that version
should be consistent with subsequent sets of data. Each of the open data set structure
the saved version must have a link;
The attributes of each structure of the open data set are English names or short transliteration text
should be displayed in English.
6. The information published on the portal in the open data sets “Public authorities and administration
on the basis of the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On transparency of activities" .
7. The information included in the open data set must meet the following requirements:
should not provide access to personal data of individuals;
information containing government, banking, commercial, tax or other secrets protected by law, as well
should not disclose confidential information;
should not contain incorrect information;
should not contain other information prohibited by law.
Chapter 4 Requirements to the formats and rules of passport issuance of open data sets
8. The open data sets to be published by the Portal Operator shall not be lower than the 2010 version
The passport of the open data set, created and executed in MS Word format, must be attached.
9. The passport of the open data set must be made in the state language using the Latin alphabet.
The passport of the open data set can be additionally created in other languages.
10. The passport of the open data set should contain the following information:
Identification number (code) of the open data set provided by the portal operator;
the full name of the open data set;
a description of the open data set;
name of supplier;
the person in charge of the supplier on the issues of publishing open data sets on the Portal
(hereinafter referred to as the responsible person) contact information (FIO, telephone number, electronic with domain "UZ"
mailing address);
a link to an open data set on other web resources;
open data set format;
a description of the structure of the open data set. This includes a description of the structure of the open data set
a link to the received file must be included;
on other web resources, including the date of first publication of the open data set;
date of last modification;
the content of the last modification;
a link to an earlier version of the open data set;
periodicity of open data set updates;
keywords that match the content of the open data set.
11. The passport of the open data set is subject to the following formats and rules of its registration
must meet the requirements:
font - "Times New Roman";
font size - 14;
location - on the left side of the page.
12. The sample of filling of the passport of the open data set is provided in the appendix to these Regulations .
Chapter 5 In order to place open data on the Portal and work with open data posted on the Portal
Interaction of the portal operator, suppliers and users, as well as open data
The order of placement on the portal
13. In order to place open data on the Portal and work with open data posted on the Portal
Cooperation between the portal operator and suppliers was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on August 7, 2015 No. 232 "Open
Further on the Governmental portal of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the Internet, taking into account the provision of information
"On measures to improve the decision is carried out.
14. The person responsible for publishing open data sets on the Portal registers on the website data.gov.uz.
15. After registration of the responsible person, the supplier submits an open data set to the Portal operator on the Portal
sends a formal request indicating the information of the person responsible for the publication and attaching the necessary materials.
16. Upon receipt of a formal request from the Supplier, the Portal Operator shall open the data sets to the responsible person
provides access to personal stock on the Portal for publication.
17. Open on the Portal after the responsible person has registered and has access to the personal account
declares data sets.
18. Each user can use the open data on the Portal on the website data.gov.uz via the Internet
has the right.
19. Users can use the Portal operator to operate the Portal using software and hardware
information on issues of presentation and open data sets to suppliers posted on the Portal
has the right to send messages.
20. Terms of mandatory use of open data when placing an open data set on the Portal
or a link to them is required. In this case, the terms of use of open data are provided by users
does not require any agreement with suppliers and does not allow users to disclose non - commercial and (or)
should not restrict its use for commercial purposes.
21. The use of public data is free of charge.
Chapter 6 Posting of open data set and open data set passport on the Internet
rules
22. Posting of open data set and open data set passport on the Internet, on the Portal
in addition to the placement is carried out on the official website of the state body.
23. Open data set and open data set passport on the official website of the state body
The following are required for placement:
To publish open data sets in machine-readable format, use the "Open Data" section
Create;
insert a visually distinguishable link in the "Open Data" section on the main page of the website;
The Open Data section is open with links to individual pages of open data sets
display a register of data sets.
24. Posting of open data set and open data set passport on the Internet
in addition it can be done optionally on other web resources.
Chapter 7 The final rule
25. Persons guilty of violating the requirements of this Regulation shall be liable in accordance with the legislation.
Form them into open data
placement and processing regulations
APPENDIX

Fill in the passport of the open data set
EXAMPLE
Open Data Set Passport
T/r
1.

Characteristics
Identification of an open data set
number (code)

2. The name of the open data set
3. Description of the open data set
4. Name of open data provider

Description
17-16
Information on higher education institutions
On higher education institutions of the Republic of Uzbekistan
basic information

Ministry of Higher and Secondary Special Education of the Republic of Uzbekistan
FIO,

5. Contact information of the responsible person

Phone: + 99800-000-00-00,
E-mail address: xxxx@xxx.uz

6. Link to open data set

http://edu.uz/___________________

7. Open data set format

XML, CSV

8. Description of the open data set structure

http://edu.uz/___________________

9.

The first announcement of an open data set
made date

kk.oo.yyyy

10. Date of last modification

kk.oo.yyyy

11. Last modified content

Some universities have been renamed

12.

To the previous version of the open data set
link

13. Periodicity of open data set update
14.

Consistent with the contents of the open data set
keywords

http://data.gov.uz/___________________
Every month
Higher education institution, institute, university, department

(Collection of Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2015, No. 52, Article 648)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

