Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

256 22.11.2005

Own | Ru

×

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
RESOLUTION

IN THE FIELD OF INFORMATION
NORMATIVE-LEGAL BASE
ABOUT IMPROVEMENT
Of the Cabinet of Ministers
Public information resources
on the order of formation
NIZOM
I. Government information resources
input information
to be documented
basic requirements
II. Public information resources
order of formation
III. Public information resources
information security
IV. Public information resources
formation and from them
responsible for use
rights of state bodies,
obligations and responsibilities
V. Government information resources
formation and from them
legal and physical in use
rights of individuals,
obligations and responsibilities

ON IMPROVEMENT OF THE REGULATORY AND LEGAL BASIS IN THE FIELD OF INFORMATION
Measures of the Cabinet of Ministers “On measures to improve the activities of the Communications and Information Agency of Uzbekistan
On the implementation of the Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated May 7, 2004 No. 215 "On Informatization"
In order to implement the law , the Cabinet of Ministers decides:
1. The following:
Regulations on the procedure for formation of the state information resources according to appendix 1;
To approve Regulations on the procedure for the organization of information systems of state bodies according to appendix 2.
See previous edit.

2. The State Committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan for Communications, Information and Telecommunication Technologies is established
in order:
(Paragraph 2 of the first paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 378 of December 30, 2012, the decision
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2013, No. 2, Article 23)

a list of public information resources, including basic public information resources, within three months
and the state responsible for the formation, use and support of public information resources
submit to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan for approval the list of bodies;
the procedure for documenting information, accounting and registration of state information resources within a month
confirm.
3. Control of execution of this resolution to assign to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan AN Aripov
be charged.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Sh. MIRZIYOYEV
Tashkent,
November 22, 2005
256-son

Of the Cabinet of Ministers
Government information
on the order of creation of systems
NIZOM

Of the Cabinet of Ministers
To Resolution No. 256 of 22 November 2005
APPENDIX 1

I. General Rules
II. Government information
basic requirements for systems
III. Government information
create systems
IV. Government information
information security of systems
provide
V. Information of government agencies
state in the creation of systems
rights and responsibilities of bodies
and liability

On the order of formation of state information resources
NIZOM
This Regulation provides for the documentation of information in government agencies, the formation of state information resources and their use
defines the basic requirements for use.
I. Basic requirements for documentation of information included in state information resources
1. Documented information is the object of property rights and in the source of information together with the relevant details
in the form of a separate document or a set of documents, including an electronic document.
2. Documentation of information is a mandatory condition for entering information into state information resources.
With the systematization, classification and relevant details of the information documented in the state information resources
should be provided.
See previous edit.

3. The order of documentation of information for inclusion in the structure of the state information resources in the field of communication and informatization
Specially authorized body - the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan
determined by.
(Item 3 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 27, 2015 No. 171 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2015,
No. 26, Article 338)

4. The following are the main details of the documented information:
the name of the document;
the name or owner of the information;
information source;
date and time of occurrence and documentation;
mode of use;
other requisites required for systematization and classification.
5. Measures to ensure the protection of documented information The owner of the documented information or
and measures to ensure the protection of documented information included in the information resource by the owner determined by the owner or possessor of the information resource.
6. When including information in the structure of state information resources, taking into account the classification and the specified details
search must be provided.
7. Information in state information resources is textual, graphic, audio, video and multimedia (textual, graphic, audio and
a combination of video formats).
II. The order of formation of state information resources
8. Depending on the use of state information resources:
basic state information resources;
divided into special state information resources.
9. Common within the powers delegated to them by all state bodies, legal entities and individuals
The information resources intended for use are the basic state information resources.
10. The structure of basic state information resources on state information resources of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Uzbekistan
For individuals and legal entities of the Republic of Uzbekistan, normative legal acts of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
Information on natural resources of Uzbekistan, on the websites of government agencies and other public information
resources database.
See previous edit.

11. Inclusion of other information resources in the basic state information resources, as well as their formation,
appointment of those responsible for their use and support in 2013-2020 National
Coordination of the implementation of a comprehensive program for the development of information and communication systems Republic
on the basis of the proposals of the commission by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
(Item 11 in the edition of the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 17, 2015 of No. 365 - NGO RU,
2015, No. 50, Article 628)

12. Designed to address the narrow professional, specific tasks of government agencies, legal entities and individuals,
Restricted information resources are special state information resources.
13. The structure of special state information resources:
agencies, territorial administrations and authorities;
legal entities and individuals established at the expense of the state budget;
specialized information resources of legal entities and individuals with state secrets and confidential information
enters.
14. Formation and provision of use of special state information resources for their organization
carried out by officials and supported by ministries, agencies, legal entities and individuals.
See previous edit.

15. Ensuring mutual information and technological compatibility of state information resources and interdepartmental electronic cooperation
must be able to integrate e-government with a central database in order to ensure.
(Paragraph 15 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 188 of June 3 , 2016 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016,
No. 23, Article 269)
See previous edit.

16. Organization and coordination of work on the formation of state information resources Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
is carried out by the Ministry of Technology and Communications Development.

(Paragraph 16 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 27, 2015 No. 171 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2015
y., No. 26, Article 338)
See previous edit.

17. The order of formation of the state information resources Information technologies of the Republic of Uzbekistan and
their formation, use and support in coordination with the Ministry of Communications Development
determined by the relevant public authorities responsible for support.
(Paragraph 17 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 27, 2015 No 171 - NGO RU, 2015y., No. 26, Article 338)

18. The formation of state information resources is determined by agreement of the parties or established by law
information resources of legal entities and individuals can be used in the order.
See previous edit.

The created state information resources are from other state information resources and information systems of state bodies
should not imply the receipt of information, if this information is "e-government" system of individuals and legal entities
if available in central databases.
The e-government system did not exist in the central databases of individuals and legal entities
state information resources that ensure the storage of information about individuals and legal entities are respectively physical
and should use unique identifiers of legal entities.
(Item 18 according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 17, 2015 of No. 365 the second and
supplemented by the third paragraph - OR NGO, 2015, No. 50, Article 628)

Persons who are obliged to provide documented information to state bodies shall have access to and use it
they do not lose their rights.
See previous edit.

19. Accounting and registration of state information resources involved in the provision of e-government services
condition
(Paragraph 19 of the first paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 188 of June 3, 2016 decision of the
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)
See previous edit.

Accounting and registration of state information resources in the prescribed manner Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
is carried out by the Ministry of Technology and Communications Development.
(Paragraph 19 of the second paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 171 dated June 27, 2015, the decision
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2015, No. 26, Article 338)

20. The order of use of the state information resources depends on the nature of the information placed in it and its function
(accessible to all and restricted).
See previous edit.

This is a state where everyone can use it without authenticating or accounting for the user
free access to information resources, as well as information available to all public resources
the user receives and receives information about individuals who do not have their own personal data
excluding the use of.
(Paragraph 20 in the second paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 188 of June 3, 2016 decision of the
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)

Take into account the actions of the user in the use of public information resources, the free use of which is restricted
acquisition, identification and authentication are mandatory.
Methods of registration, identification and authentication of actions are relevant in accordance with regulatory documents
determined by the state bodies responsible for the formation of state information resources.
See previous edit.
(Paragraph 5 of item 20 to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 31, 2013 of No. 355
mainly issued - OR NGO, 2014, No. 2, Article 17)
See previous edit.

21.1 Public information resources involved in the provision of e-government services and the e-government center
Interaction with databases is carried out through the interagency integration platform of the e-government system
is increased.
(21 1Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan Cabinet of Ministers No. 188 of June 3, 2016 decision of the mostly completed - NW
NGO, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)

21. In the formation of state information resources:
reliability and completeness of the information provided;
realization of the rights of individuals and legal entities to freedom of access to information;
information security;
conditions for the use of information by public authorities;
information-technological compatibility of state information resources;
a system of archiving state information resources should be provided.
State information resources should be formed in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and other regulations.
III. Ensuring information security of state information resources
22. State information resources must be protected in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and other regulations.
23. Information security of state information resources Complex organizational and technical measures of information protection
and a system that includes software and hardware.
The information security system of state information resources protects the state body's own information resources
should be done in accordance with a security policy that reflects the approach.
24. Organizational measures include the organization, formation of state information resources of legal entities and individuals, from them
include a list of actions and requirements that govern the procedures for use and engagement in their support
need
25. Formation and access to state information resources that are considered to be state secrets and confidential information
the state responsible for shaping, using and supporting the maintenance work
should be done by the authorities.
To organize and support public information resources with confidential information when necessary
Involvement of legal entities in the prescribed manner is allowed.
26. Software and hardware for protection of state information resources:
identification and prevention of information security threats;
data integrity in the formation, use, processing, transmission and storage;
protection from unauthorized access, additions and changes to information resources;
data backup and recovery system;
ensure the integrity and performance of the information security system.
27. Protection of information used in the information security system of state information resources
The software and hardware must be licensed and certified.
IV. Government agencies responsible for the formation and use of public information resources
rights, obligations and responsibilities
28. The state bodies responsible for formation and use of the state information resources:
determination of the order of access and use of state information resources;
the provision of documented information for the formation of state information resources is legal within its competence
and demand from individuals;
in the formation of state information resources from the information resources of legal entities and individuals established by law
use in order;
has the right to determine and determine the amount of payment for the use of state information resources.
The legislation of the state bodies responsible for the formation and use of state information resources
may have other rights as appropriate.
29. The state bodies responsible for the formation and use of state information resources are their powers
within:
providing mandatory information, including the formation and use of public information resources
to organize activities for the organization of ripening, collection and processing;
organization of protection of state information resources, control over their condition, storage and use
to reach;
formation and use of state information resources in accordance with this Regulation and current legislation
and comply with the requirements for the organization of access;
to ensure the protection of intellectual property;
forming public information resources that are freely available to all and including them, including the Internet
to bring to the attention of individuals and legal entities the procedure for granting access through the network
is mandatory.
The legislation of the state bodies responsible for the formation and use of state information resources
may have other obligations as appropriate.
30. The state bodies responsible for formation and use of the state information resources:
reliability and completeness of the information provided to the state information resources;
violation of the rules of work with information, the formation and use of state information resources, information
illegal actions in the exchange;
See previous edit.

to provide access to information to persons who do not have the right to information, as well as to individuals
dissemination of information about personal data without the consent of the relevant individuals;
(30-point fourth paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 188 of June 3, 2016 decision of the
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)

responsible for ensuring the protection of state information resources in the manner prescribed by law
will be.
The legislation of the state bodies responsible for the formation and use of state information resources
they may also be responsible in other ways as appropriate.
V. Rights of legal entities and individuals in the formation and use of state information resources,
obligations and responsibilities
31. Legal entities and individuals in the formation and use of state information resources:
organization, formation, support of state information resources in the manner prescribed by law and
storage;
in the formation of public information resources that are freely available to all, from their own information resources,
as well as the use of information resources of legal entities and individuals in the manner prescribed by law;
information used to form public information resources that are freely available to all
has the right to use the technical means of the system.
Legislation on the formation and use of state information resources by legal entities and individuals
they may have other rights as appropriate.
32. In the formation and use of state information resources by legal entities and individuals:
documentation of information, formation of state information resources, organization of their use and free access
to comply with the procedure and requirements for them;
to ensure information security of state information resources;
from licensed programs in the formation and availability of state information resources and
must use certified technical means.
Legislation on the formation and use of state information resources by legal entities and individuals
may have other obligations as appropriate.
33. In the formation and use of state information resources by legal entities and individuals:
violation of the rules of information processing, formation and use of state information resources;
theft, loss, misinterpretation, blocking of information in state information resources,
falsification;
will be liable for infringement of copyright and intellectual property legislation.
Legislation on the formation and use of state information resources by legal entities and individuals
they may also be responsible in other ways as appropriate.
See previous edit.
(attached to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 355 of December 31, 2013, are null and void the decision
- OR NGO, 2014, No. 2, Article 17)
Of the Cabinet of Ministers
To Resolution No. 256 of 22 November 2005
APPENDIX 2

On the procedure for creating information systems of government agencies
NIZOM
This Regulation provides general requirements for information systems of state bodies, requirements for the order of their creation, as well as
defines the tasks of government agencies in the creation of information systems.
I. General Rules
1. The information system of government agencies allows to collect, store, search, process and use information
an organized, regulated set of government information resources, information technology, and communications
is calculated.
2. Information systems of state bodies are an integral part of the national information system of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
See previous edit.

3. Formation of single electronic registers and databases, as well as modern information and communication
They increase the efficiency, speed and transparency of their activities through the active use of technology
expanding the range and improving the quality of e-government services provided, other government agencies, legal and physical
organization of interdepartmental electronic cooperation with individuals The purpose of creating information systems of government agencies
is calculated.
(Paragraph 3 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated April 20, 2018 No 297 - Legislation
National Database, April 23, 2018, No. 09/18/297/1096)
See previous edit.

4. Search for information necessary for the provision of public services, the performance of other functions of public authorities,
Accelerate and facilitate the processes of acquisition, processing, classification and distribution, timely response to new needs
to continue the work of satisfaction and rapid assessment of emerging opportunities, as well as all of the public body
Improving the efficiency, management of the structural units, its coordination from the state information system
is the main purpose of use.
(Paragraph 4 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 188 of June 3 , 2016 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016,
No. 23, Article 269)

II. Basic requirements for information systems of government agencies
5. Information systems of government agencies:
guaranteed and safe access to public information resources;
ability to search, collect, process and store government information resources;
See previous edit.

the ability to generate open data sets;
(Item 5 according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 17, 2015 of No. 365 the fourth paragraph
supplemented by - OR NGO, 2015, No. 50, Article 628)

giving government agencies access to local and global information resources;
See previous edit.

e-government services on the principle of "single window" by government agencies and other organizations
Possibility to integrate the e-government system with the interagency integration platform to ensure
in this case, independently of the documents and information provided by the public authority providing e-government services, the application
without the participation of the employer, through interagency electronic cooperation.
(Paragraph 5 of the sixth paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 297 of April 20, 2018, the decision
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, April 23, 2018, No. 09/18/297/1096)

reliable operation of software and hardware and their interruptions, including erratic operation of users
resilience;
fast and secure data exchange between users;
further by upgrading hardware and software, enriching the system with new components
possibility of expansion;
provide other functions related to the main areas of activity of public authorities.
6. Information systems of state bodies consist of:
providing support by public authorities in the performance of their main tasks and functions
transaction and accounting systems;
systems of interaction on interdepartmental information between information systems of state bodies;
ensuring the support of practical processes and administrative regulations in the activities of public authorities
resource management systems;
information on the results of the performance of their main tasks and functions by public authorities
information-analytical systems that provide collection, processing, storage and analysis;
electronic document management systems;
electronic archive management systems;
access control systems (including infrastructure component management systems);
See previous edit.

including through the Internet or other communication channels of interaction with individuals and legal entities
provision of e-government services by government agencies through telephone service portals and centers
supply systems;
(Paragraph 6 of the ninth paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 188 of June 3, 2016 decision of the
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)

information security systems;
for the preparation of documents and exchange of information by government officials in their daily activities
used office systems.
7. Information systems of government agencies must meet the requirements for reliable and stable operation.
8. Information systems of government agencies should be based on the following principles:
ease of use, reliability, completeness and timeliness of information;
Privacy - the use of information resources of information systems within the powers granted to users
ensuring restraint;
transparency - the ability to integrate with other information systems and national information systems;
See previous edit.

use of unique e-government identifiers - defined in the legislation of e-government
information in the information systems of government agencies providing e-government services on the basis of unique identifiers
ensuring storage and recycling;
(Item 8 The fifth paragraph according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from June 3, 2016 of No. 188)
supplemented by - OR NGO, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)

scalability - the addition of software and hardware to information systems, modernization, and so on
the possibility of further expanding the functionality of information systems by road;
Security - ensuring the safety and integrity of information resources that are part of information systems.
III. Creation of information systems of government agencies
9. Information systems of state bodies means of the state budget, extra-budgetary means of state bodies,
as well as other sources not prohibited by law.
10. In the process of creating information systems of government agencies, the customer, developer, supplier, head
design organizations, design, installation, adjustment organizations and other organizations of various parts may participate.
11. Creation of information systems of state bodies consists of the following stages: formation of requirements,
development of concept, terms of reference, sketches and technical projects, preparation, commissioning and monitoring of working documents
to go
12. The content of the work at each stage and the distribution of responsibilities of the participants in the creation of information systems
determined by the relevant standards.
See previous edit.

13. Technical documentation of information systems of state bodies for 2013-2020
Coordination of the implementation of a comprehensive program for the development of information and communication systems Republic
The working body of the commission is the Development of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan
submitted to the Ministry for examination.
It is planned to automate and convert the technical documentation of information systems of government agencies into electronic form,
information on the administrative procedures performed, together with the developer and the customer
reorganization and optimization of functional and operational processes in the field of automated activities
information on the implementation or planning of the transfer, as well as the effectiveness of its implementation
should include indicators.
(Paragraph 13 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 17, 2015 No. 365 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
2015, No. 50, Article 628)
See previous edit.

14. Complex development of the National Information and Communication System of the Republic of Uzbekistan for 2013-2020
The working body of the Republican Commission to coordinate the implementation of the program within a month of the examination, if necessary
according to which experts from the relevant ministries and departments will be involved.
(Paragraph 14 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 17, 2015 No. 365 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
2015, No. 50, Article 628)

15. Examination of information systems projects of government agencies:
the ability of the information system to perform the tasks recommended by the decision;
See previous edit.

functional and operational in the provision of public services aimed at the transfer of processes to electronic form
the need for reorganization and optimization of processes, deadlines and unreasonable costs
reduction, etc .;
(Item 15 according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 17, 2015 of No. 365
supplemented by - OR NGO, 2015, No. 50, Article 628)

compliance of the project with current regulations;
ensuring interaction with the national information system;
information security.
16. Creation and financing of information systems of state bodies only after obtaining a positive expert opinion
is done.
17. Work on the creation of information systems in the manner prescribed by law, government agencies, legal and physical
can be done by individuals.
See previous edit.

Information systems created by government agencies include information from other government information resources and government agencies
should not be considered to receive information from systems, if this information is physical and legal in the system of "e-government"
if available in the central databases of individuals.
(Item 17 according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 17, 2015 of No. 365
Completed - OR NGO, 2015, No. 50, Article 628)
See previous edit.

18. Special commission on acceptance of commissioning of information systems of state bodies
National Information and Communication of the Republic of Uzbekistan in 2013-2020
At least 3 representatives of the Republican Commission to coordinate the implementation of a comprehensive program for the development of the system,
taking into account their professional experience and skills in the field of information technology.
(Item 18 in the edition of the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 17, 2015 of No. 365 - RK NGO,
2015, No. 50, Article 628)
See previous edit.

19. Information systems of government agencies involved in the provision of e-government services are mandatory
received and registered.
(Paragraph 19 of the first paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 188 of June 3, 2016 decision of the
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)
See previous edit.

Accounting and registration of information systems of state bodies Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
is carried out by the Ministry of Technology and Communications Development.
(Paragraph 19 of the second paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 171 dated June 27, 2015, the decision
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2015, No. 26, Article 338)

IV. Ensuring information security of information systems of government agencies
20. Information systems of state bodies are protected in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and other regulations.
21. Organizational and technical measures for information security in the information systems of government agencies
should be provided with a system that includes a set of measures as well as software and hardware.
22. Organizational measures allow legal entities and individuals to design, create information systems of government agencies and
consists of a list of actions and requirements governing their use and involvement in their support
will be.
23. Work on the creation of information systems that process information belonging to state secrets or classified information
should be carried out by the public authorities responsible for the creation and maintenance.
Confidential information to create and maintain information systems of government agencies, if necessary
Involvement of working legal entities in the prescribed manner.
24. Software and hardware for information protection used in information systems of government agencies
be licensed, certified and:
identification of protected information resources;
authentication of users of the information system;
confidentiality of information circulating in the system;
exchange of data in the original;
data integrity in the formation, transmission, use, processing and storage of information;
access to all resources in the system under normal operating conditions;
limited access of users to information system resources;
management (determination of the right to use the resources of information systems, information in the registers
performance, installation and removal of protection systems);
the rights of users to access and log out, as well as access to information system resources
registration of violations;
control over the integrity and performance of the information security system;
must ensure the safe and uninterrupted operation of the system in emergencies.
25. From cryptographic means of information protection of users, including electronic-digital
work in the information system of state bodies with the use of signature means is carried out in the manner prescribed by law
should be increased.
26. Information systems designed to process information containing state secrets or classified information
technical means must be certified in the manner prescribed by law.
27. Information systems in which confidential information exists and are processed are transferred to international information networks, ie
including access to the Internet after the necessary measures have been taken to protect them.
International information systems that have confidential and top secret information and operate them
networks, including the Internet.
28. The information security system of information systems of government agencies also poses a threat to security
appropriate to ensure timely identification of the causes and conditions associated with the disruption of their normal functioning
should be done with a security policy.
See previous edit.

28.1 Designed to work with information belonging to state secrets or classified information by government agencies
information systems from mandatory certification in accordance with the requirements of information security in the manner prescribed by law
should be transferred.
(28 1Bank of the Republic of Uzbekistan Cabinet of Ministers No. 296 of November 7, 2011, the decision - NW
NGO, 2011, No. 45-46, Article 472)

29. Ensuring information security of information systems at all stages of development and operation
tools and methods depending on the purpose of the information system and the current regulations in the field of information security
determined by state bodies in accordance with the documents.
V. Rights, duties and responsibilities of government agencies in the creation of information systems of government agencies
30. Government agencies have the following rights:
determine the order of use of their information systems;
established interconnection of their information systems with other information systems for information exchange
perform in order.
Public authorities may have other rights in accordance with the legislation.
31. Government agencies are obliged to:
create your own information systems;
with information systems that are part of their national information systems, as well as with international information systems
ensuring compliance;
See previous edit.

information systems and information resources that contain the information necessary for the provision of e-government services
ensuring uninterrupted operation;
(Item 31 according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from June 3, 2016 of No. 188
supplemented by - OR NGO, 2016, No. 23, Article 269)

ensuring information security of information systems.

Public authorities may have other functions in accordance with the legislation.
32. In creating information systems of state bodies:
compliance with the procedure and requirements for the creation of information systems of government agencies;
government agencies are responsible for ensuring the information security of information systems.
Public authorities also exercise other responsibilities in accordance with the legislation.
(Collection of Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2005, No. 47-48, Article 355; 2011, No. 45-46, Article 472; 2013, No. 2, 23mode; 2014, No. 2, Article 17; 2015, No. 26, Article 338; No. 50, Article 628; 2016, No. 23, Article 269; Legislation
National Database, April 23, 2018, No. 09/18/297/1096)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

