Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

Own | Ru

×

249 02.08.2016

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
RESOLUTION

Electronic fairs, auctions and
Contest organizers-information
organize the activities of intermediaries
Regulations on the order of delivery
about approval
APPENDIX
Electronic fairs, auctions and
competition organizers the activities of media
on the order of establishment
NIZOM

INFORMATION BY THE ORGANIZERS OF ELECTRONIC FAIRS, AUCTIONS AND COMPETITIONS
APPROVAL OF THE REGULATION ON THE ORDER OF ORGANIZATION OF ACTIVITIES OF INTERMEDIARIES
ABOUT
Accelerated development of e-commerce in the Republic of Uzbekistan, as well as information intermediaries of e-commerce and
The Cabinet of Ministers decided to create additional favorable conditions for the development of the activities of the participants
does:
1. Organization of activities of the organizers of electronic fairs, auctions and competitions - media
to approve the Situation on the procedure according to appendix.
2. Control of execution of this resolution to assign to the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan RS
Let Azimov be in charge.

I. General Rules

The Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Sh. MIRZIYOYEV

II. Information intermediaries
rights and obligations

Tashkent,
August 2, 2016,
No. 249

III. E-commerce participants
IV. Organization of e-commerce
layout

Of the Cabinet of Ministers of August 2, 2016
Resolution No. 249
APPENDIX

V. Closing Rules

The order of organization of activities of the organizers of electronic fairs, auctions and competitions - media
about
NIZOM
I. General Rules
1. This Provision provides for electronic fairs (including trade fairs), auctions and competitions
determines the procedure for organizing the activities of the organizers - the media.
See previous edit.

2. Application of this Regulation with the use of personal information systems of electronic commerce participants
does not apply to transactions, public procurement, as well as the activities of:
(The first paragraph of item 2 in edition of the order of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 30, 2020 of No. PP-4938
- National Database of Legislation, 31.12.2020, No. 07/20/4938/1680)

goods of a certain type and quality, including derivative financial instruments (derivatives) from the electronic exchange and exchange
organizers of foreign trade;
on organization of e-government and corporate procurement;
organizers of electronic real estate sales;
related to the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages in transactions between e-commerce participants
information intermediaries serving non-e-commerce service participants.
3. For the purposes of this Charter the following concepts are used:
agent - accredited by the media and a contract of assignment or commission agreement
An e-commerce participant who provides intermediary services to sellers and buyers in e-commerce on the basis of - legal
person;
acceptance - the response of the person to the offer on its acceptance;
media - organization of electronic fairs (including exhibitions and fairs), auctions and competitions
legal entity;
information system - information system of the media, electronic fairs (including exhibitions and fairs)
collection), storage, retrieval, processing of information for the conclusion of transactions on the results of auctions and tenders
organization of information resources, information technologies and means of communication that allow to work and use it
a regulated order;
oferent - in the information system of the media (seller - in the sale of goods, buyer - in the purchase of goods)
the participant of the placed e-commerce;
offer - all of the contract, addressed to one person, to several specific persons or to a range of indefinite persons
a contract with any person who responds to the offer of the person making the offer, including the terms and conditions
a proposal in which he can know his will on the draft;
Rules of the media - electronic commerce using the information system of the media
local document of the media outlet establishing the order of organization (electronic fairs (including exhibitions-fairs)
rules of sale), auctions and competitions);
commodity - a commodity, work and (or) that is not excluded from civil circulation and is the subject of a transaction in e-commerce
service.
II. Rights and obligations of media
4. The mediator has the following rights:
setting the terms of services for e-commerce participants and the cost of their services, in the legislation
except as otherwise provided;
setting the rules of the media and the requirements for participants in e-commerce;
to the participants of the e-commerce, the mediator of the e-commerce participant, who violated the rules established by them
and (or) suspending the provision of services if there are unpaid debts to e-commerce participants
get up
information, training, consulting, logistics, etc. related to e-commerce to e-commerce participants
provision of additional services;
e-commerce dishonesty, including databases in collaboration with other media
create registers of participants.
Media intermediaries may have other rights under the law and the contract.
5. The mediator has no right to:
becoming a party to a transaction using its own information system, as well as an information intermediary
carrying out production, trade, trade-brokerage or other activities not related to the provision of services;
implementation of e-commerce, interference in the formation of prices in transactions, counterparties
restricting the freedom of e-commerce participants in the selection and conclusion of transactions, as well as e-commerce
otherwise restricting the rights of participants.
6. The media agent must:
compliance with the legislation in the field of e-commerce, including standards, norms and rules;
its full name, organizational and legal form, services provided, conditions and prices (tariffs) for their provision
disclosure of information to e-commerce participants;
not to change the content of electronic documents and electronic messages, the order of their use, e-commerce
except as provided in the contracts concluded with the participants;
measures to protect electronic documents, electronic messages and personal data from unauthorized use
supply;
non-disclosure of electronic documents and electronic messages to third parties, provided by law or contract
exceptions;
ensuring the safety of electronic documents and electronic messages in accordance with the law;
placement of its information system on servers in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Media intermediaries may assume other obligations in accordance with the law and the contract
possible.
7. The information intermediary shall post and disclose the following information and documents on its official website
must provide:
Normative and legal documents regulating e-commerce in the Republic of Uzbekistan;
the text of the collective agreement on services to participants of electronic commerce;
binding rules and local documents of the media for e-commerce participants
text;
current tariffs for the use of its information system;
other information subject to mandatory disclosure provided by the legislation.
8. Information intermediary:
reliability of electronic documents and electronic messages submitted, received and stored,
as well as in the legislation and if they are not obliged to monitor or verify their compliance with the legislation
unless otherwise provided by the contract;
with the content of electronic documents and e-mails of e-commerce participants submitted to them
is not responsible for the related legal consequences.
III. E-commerce participants
9. Legal entities and individual entrepreneurs using information systems in e-commerce
services).
10. Legal entities and individuals using information systems in e-commerce for goods (works, services)
may be customers.
11. Information system obligatory registration and identification of e-commerce participants
should provide.
12. Participation in e-commerce using information systems is independent of the seller and the buyer
or through agents.
13. The Agent shall maintain the confidentiality of information known to him as a result of providing services to the seller or the buyer
forced to comply.
In this case, the agent has no right to represent the interests of the seller and the buyer under the same transaction at the same time.
14. Interaction of participants of e-commerce and information intermediaries in free use in the information system
determined by the terms of the placed collective agreement.
15. Information intermediary in front of third parties on the obligations of e-commerce participants, including
shall not be liable for contracts concluded using its information system, in a collective agreement and (or)
except as otherwise provided by the rules of the media.
E-commerce participants are not responsible for the obligations of the media.
16. The information intermediary is responsible for ensuring the delivery of the goods, provided by the rules of the media
in order to guarantee the fulfillment of obligations of e-commerce participants.
License or other in the legislation to provide additional services related to e-commerce
a permit-type document is required, as well as the person providing such services
The media outlet must have a license (permit) and (or)
must meet the specified requirements.
IV. Procedure for organizing e-commerce

17. Transactions made using information systems of information intermediaries are competitive or non-competitive
can be formed in forms.
18. Forms of organization of e-commerce are recognized as competitive forms of transactions, in which information
The broker's information system provides the following conditions:
the possibility of accepting the offer by at least two participants of e-commerce;
concluding a contract with the person who offered the best terms of performance of the contract for the offerent.
The transaction shall be deemed to have been entered into if the said requirements are complied with.
In making transactions in competitive forms, the person who accepted the offer is designated to accept it
actions for fulfillment of the terms of the contract (shipment of goods, services) specified in it
show, perform work, pay the appropriate amount, etc.) is not considered acceptance.
19. When using competitive forms of e-commerce, the contract price is competitive with potential participants
is determined by comparing the offers and selecting the best offer for the oferent from them.
20. The price of the contract concluded using competitive forms of electronic commerce, the offer is placed
competitive bids to two or more potential participants for a period of not less than 24 hours from the date
is recognized as the market price if given the opportunity to transfer freely.
21. In the use of non-competitive forms of e-commerce, the transaction is placed by the offeror in the information system
the offer is made by any person who responds to his offer by accepting the offer by acceptance.
22. When using non-competitive forms of e-commerce, the contract price is set at the level specified in the offer.
23. The information system must provide for automatic registration of the transaction.
24. The mediator is not allowed to register:
to the contract concluded on the basis of the results of the transaction made in the information system using competitive forms
changes and additions;
transactions made outside its information system;
compulsorily registered and (or) notarized in accordance with the legislation
agreements.
25. Approved media in accordance with the procedures adopted by the e-commerce media
is carried out in accordance with the rules.
26. The rules of the media should be predetermined, one for all participants in e-commerce
must be different and must consist of:
rights and obligations of the media;
requirements for e-commerce participants, the procedure for allowing them to make transactions, their rights
and obligations;
procedure for registration and identification of an e-commerce participant;
the procedure for organizing e-commerce, concluding transactions, drawing up and registering contracts;
the order of pricing based on the results of transactions in the information system of the media;
fulfillment of obligations under concluded contracts, settlements (for the goods and for its delivery
payment) organization procedure;
transactions, measures to protect the services and trade secrets of e-commerce participants
the procedure for disclosure of information about;
rules on liability for violation of the rules of the media;
measures to protect the interests of e-commerce participants and information for their violation
the responsibility of the mediator;
the use of the personal data of the e-commerce participant of the media is allowed
goals and conditions, as well as measures of liability for their violation;
arises in the process of e-commerce, which is carried out using the information system of the media
the procedure for dealing with impending disputes and disagreements.
The rules of the media may include:
agents providing services to e-commerce participants on participation in e-commerce
procedure for accreditation, a set of requirements to them;
the rights and obligations of agents;
guarantees of execution of transactions made by the information intermediary using its information system
terms and conditions of issuance;
other rules in accordance with the legislation.
27. The rights and obligations under the transaction concluded in the information system are electronic in the transaction information system of the parties
occurs after registration, unless otherwise provided by law.
V. Closing Rules
28. In e-commerce using information systems of information intermediaries
The following are not allowed:
discrimination against e-commerce participants, allowing one participant in e-commerce to freely use other participants
granting privileges or preferences that are not received and are not provided by law;
making decisions under the influence of personal interests by media officials or
committing other illegal actions that harm the interests of e-commerce participants;
pressure on e-commerce participants, disclosure of information on participation in e-commerce (law)
(except as otherwise provided in the documents), to prevent, restrict or
removal;
language in order to change the market situation of e-commerce participants or distort prices
attach;
giving or disseminating unreliable or distorted information, as well as access to information
unreasonable restriction;
refrain from further signing the contract by e-commerce participants or fulfilling it to the extent necessary
filing applications at artificially reduced or increased prices for the purpose of weighing;
selling or selling goods, performance of works, services using the information systems of the media
an individual who is not registered as a sole proprietor in the prescribed manner
execution of transactions by one of the parties to the calculated transaction.
29. Persons guilty of violating this Regulation shall be liable in the manner prescribed by law.
(Collection of Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 31, Article 378; National Database of Legislation, 31.12.2020y., 07/20/4938/1680-son)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

