Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

×

439-II 12.12.2002

Own | Ru

The document is currently being amended

LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

PRINCIPLES OF INFORMATION FREEDOM

ON THE PRINCIPLES AND GUARANTEES OF FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

AND WARRANTIES
Article 1 The basis of this Act
functions
Article 2 Freedom of information
principles and guarantees
legislation

Article 1 The main functions of this Law
The main tasks of this Law are to ensure compliance with the principles and guarantees of freedom of information, information to everyone
free and unimpeded search, retrieval, inspection, distribution, use and storage rights, as well as
ensuring the protection of information and the security of information of the individual, society and the state.
Article 2 Legislation on the principles and guarantees of freedom of information

Article 3 Basic concepts
Article 4 Freedom of information
Article 5 Freedom of information
basic principles
Article 6 Openness of information and
transparency
Article 7 Everyone is free from information
and FIG
authenticity
Article 8 Freedom of information
warranties
Article 9 Procedure for obtaining information
Article 10 Refusal to provide information
reach
Article 11 Information protection
reach
Article 12 Information security
state in the field of supply
policy
Article 13 Personal information
security
Article 14 Community Information
security
Article 15 State information
security
Article 16 Freedom of information
principles and guarantees
for violation of the legislation
responsibility

The legislation on the principles and guarantees of freedom of information is derived from this Law and other legislative acts
consists of.
If the international treaty of the Republic of Uzbekistan stipulates the principles of freedom of information of the Republic of Uzbekistan and
the rules of the international agreement, if other rules are established than provided by the legislation on guarantees
applied.
Article 3 Basic concepts
The following basic concepts are applied in this Law:
information - persons, objects, facts, events, happenings and processes, regardless of their sources and form of presentation
information about;
the owner of the information - the owner of the information obtained from its own funds or other legally obtained, from it
the user or the legal entity or individual who manages it;
information protection - prevention and elimination of threats to information security
remedial measures;
See previous edit.

information resources - separate documents, separate sets of documents, in information systems (information-library
institutions, archives, departmental archives, funds, data banks and other information systems)
documents and sets of documents;
(Paragraph 5 of Article 3 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated April 18, 2018 No. ZRU-476 National Database of Legislation, April 19, 2018, No. 03/18/476/1087)

information sphere - the sphere of activity of subjects connected with creation, processing and use of information;
information security - the state of protection of the interests of the individual, society and the state in the field of information;
owner of information - the owner of the information within the limits of the rights established by the law or the owner of the information,
a legal entity or an individual who uses and manages it;
confidential information - documented information, the use of which is restricted in accordance with the legislation;
mass media - documented information, printed, audio, intended for an unlimited number of persons
audiovisual and other messages and materials;
Documented information - a record in a physical object with the details of identification
information provided.
Article 4 Freedom of information

In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Uzbekistan , everyone has the right to seek, receive, inspect and disseminate information without hindrance.
have the right to use and store it.
Access to information is only in accordance with the law and human rights and freedoms, the foundations of the constitutional system, society
moral values, to protect the spiritual, cultural and scientific potential of the country, to ensure security
may be limited.
Article 5 Basic principles of freedom of information
Openness and transparency, openness to all and fairness are the basic principles of freedom of information.
Article 6 Openness and transparency of information
Information should be open and transparent, with the exception of confidential information.
Confidential information does not include:
on the rights and freedoms of citizens, the procedure for their exercise, as well as state power and
governing bodies, citizens' self-government bodies, public associations and other non-profit organizations
legislation determining the legal status of organizations;
information on ecological, meteorological, demographic, sanitary-epidemiological, emergency situations and
necessary to ensure the safety of the population, settlements, production facilities and communications
other information;
See previous edit.

activities in the territory of information and library institutions, archives, departmental archives and the Republic of Uzbekistan
available information in open funds of information systems belonging to the specified legal entities.
(The second part of the fourth paragraph of Article 6 of the Republic of Uzbekistan on April 18, 2018, No. 476, dated the Law
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, April 19, 2018, No. 03/18/476/1087)

Public authorities and administration bodies, citizens' self-government bodies, public associations and others
Law on events, facts, events and processes in the public interest of non-governmental non-profit organizations
must notify the media in the manner prescribed by the documents.
Article 7 The fact that information is freely available to all and its authenticity
The information must be accessible and accurate to all.
Distortion and falsification of information is prohibited.
With the source and author of the information for the accuracy of the information they disseminate to the media
jointly and severally liable in the manner prescribed by law.
LexUZ review
In accordance with Article 11 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On guarantees and freedom of access to information" public
the media must verify the accuracy of the information being published, and they must share it with the informant
will be responsible for the accuracy. Also through the Criminal Code of the Republic of Uzbekistan through the media
criminal liability for libel, insult, and defamation of a competitor. Crime for complete information
see Articles 139 , 140 , 158 and 192 of the Code .

The owner of the information may be sued for refusal to provide the information.
Article 8 Guarantees of freedom of information
The state protects the right of everyone to seek, receive, inspect, disseminate, use and store information.
The right to information on the basis of sex, race, nationality, language, religion, social origin, beliefs, personal and social status
restriction is not allowed.
Public authorities and administration bodies, citizens' self-government bodies, public associations and others
non-governmental non-profit organizations and officials shall assert their rights to everyone in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation.
to provide access to information affecting their liberties and legitimate interests
to create information resources, to inform users about the rights, freedoms and obligations of citizens, their security
and provide public information on other issues of public interest.
LexUZ review
See Article 7 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On guarantees and freedom of information" .

Censorship and monopolization of information are not allowed in the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Article 9 Procedure for obtaining information
See previous edit.

Everyone has the right to receive information directly or through their representatives, both orally and in writing, including the information system
have the right to apply with an electronic request.
(Part 1 of Article 9 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 29, 2015 No. ZRU-396 - RU
NGO, 2015, No. 52, Article 645)

In the written request the name, patronymic, surname, address of the applicant (and details of legal entities)
and the name or nature of the requested information. Requests should be registered in the prescribed manner
need
LexUZ review
See Article 6 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On guarantees and freedom of information" .
See previous edit.

The e-mail address of the applicant may be indicated in the written request. Email address in written request
is the consent of the applicant to receive a response to the request in electronic form through the information system.
(Article 9 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 29, 2015 No. ZRU-396 with the third part
supplemented - OR NGO, 2015, No. 52, Article 645)
See previous edit.

The request sent in the form of an electronic document, including a written request, as soon as possible, if the law
reply no later than fifteen days from the date of receipt of the request, unless otherwise provided in the documents
should be given.
(Part 4 of Article 9 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 29, 2015 No. ZRU-396 - RU
NGO, 2015, No. 52, Article 645)

An oral question should be answered immediately, depending on the opportunity.
See previous edit.

To provide the requested information within the period specified in the fourth and fifth parts of this article
if it is not possible, a notice of delay in providing the information to the applicant
will be sent.
(Part 6 of Article 9 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 29, 2015 No. ZRU-396 - RU
NGO, 2015, No. 52, Article 645)

Delay in providing the requested information shall not exceed two months from the date of the request.
The notice of delay in submission shall be given to the person requesting the information within one week from the date of receipt of the request
will be sent within the period.
The notice of delay in submission must contain the following:
reasons for failure to provide the requested information in a timely manner;
the date on which the requested information is provided.
If the requested authority or official did not have the requested information, the requested information was requested
notify the person no later than five days from the date of receipt of the request.
Information may be charged in the prescribed manner.
LexUZ review
Appeal in accordance with Article 8 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On guarantees and freedom of access to information."
information concerning the rights and legitimate interests of the applicant shall be provided free of charge upon his request. Giving other information
may be charged in accordance with the agreement of the parties.

Article 10 Refusal to provide information
If the requested information is confidential or as a result of its disclosure, the rights and legitimate interests of the person,
the provision of information may be denied if it may harm the interests of society and the state.
A notice of refusal to provide the requested information was received from the person who made the request
will be sent within five days from the date.
The notice of denial must state the reason why the requested information cannot be provided.
The owner of the confidential information, the owner of the persons requesting the information on the current restrictions on access to this information
must notify.
Persons whose information has been illegally denied, as well as information that is not true to their request
compensation for material damage caused to the recipients in the manner prescribed by law or moral damage
have the right to be compensated.
LexUZ review
See Article 985 of the Civil Code of the Republic of Uzbekistan .

Article 11 Information protection
Any information, if it is treated illegally, is from the owner of the information, the owner of the information
should be protected if it may cause harm to the user or another person.
Information protection:
prevention of threats to the security of the individual, society and the state in the field of information;
ensuring the confidentiality of information, preventing its dissemination, theft, loss;
in order to prevent misinterpretation and falsification of information.
Article 12 State policy in the field of information security
State policy in the field of information security to regulate social relations in the field of information
and public authority in the field of information security of the individual, society and the state
the main tasks and areas of activity of governing bodies, as well as citizens' self-government
bodies, public associations and other non-governmental non-profit organizations, determine the role and importance of citizens.
Article 13 Personal information security
Creating the necessary conditions and guarantees for a person's information security, free access to information,
to keep secrets concerning private life, to protect against unlawful psychological influence in the media
provided by
Personal information pertaining to individuals falls into the category of confidential information.
Without the consent of the individual, information about his private life, as well as about his private life
to collect information that violates the confidentiality of correspondence, telephone conversations, mail, telegraph and other communications,
storage, processing, distribution and use are not allowed, except as provided by law
except.
LexUZ review
For more information of the Criminal Procedure Code 166 - 168 suffrage and chapter 21
see

Infliction of material and moral damage to them from information about individuals, as well as their
use in order to impede the exercise of their rights, freedoms and legitimate interests.
Legal and physical persons who receive, possess and use such information about citizens
individuals shall be liable in accordance with the law for violation of the order of use of this information.
The mass media have the right to disclose the source of the information or the author who gave the pseudonym without their consent.
it's not. The source of the information or the name of the author may be disclosed only by court order.
Article 14 Information security of society
The information security of the society is achieved in the following ways:
ensuring the development of the foundations of a democratic civil society, freedom of the media;
not to allow undue psychological influence on the public consciousness through the media, to distract it;
preservation of spiritual, cultural and historical riches of the society, scientific and scientific-technical potential of the country;
development;
to derail the understanding of national identity, to distance society from historical and national traditions and customs,
information aimed at destabilizing the socio-political situation, disrupting inter-ethnic and inter-religious harmony
building a system of action against expansion.
Article 15 State information security
State information security is ensured in the following ways:
economic, political, organizational and other in response to threats to information security
implementation of measures;
protection of state secrets and protection of state information resources from their unauthorized use;
To the world information space and modern telecommunication systems of the Republic of Uzbekistan
integration;
Forcible change of the constitutional order of the Republic of Uzbekistan, territorial integrity, sovereignty
to overthrow, seize power, or remove from power the representatives of a legally elected or appointed authority
information that explicitly encourages expulsion and other aggression against the state system
protection against proliferation;
aimed at inciting war and violence, cruelty, inciting social, national, racial and religious hatred
to take action against the dissemination of information, including the dissemination of ideas of terrorism and religious extremism.
Article 16 For violation of the legislation on the principles and guarantees of freedom of information
responsibility
Persons found guilty of violating the legislation on the principles and guarantees of freedom of information have been identified
will be responsible for the order.
LexUZ review
Articles 155 , 218 of the Code of Administrative Responsibility of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Republic of Uzbekistan
See Article 143 of the Criminal Code .

President of the Republic of Uzbekistan I. KARIMOV
Tashkent,
December 12, 2002,
No. 439-II
(Bulletin of the Oliy Majlis of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2003, No. 1, Article 2; 2015, No. 52, Article 645; Legislation
National Database, April 19, 2018, No. 03/18/476/1087)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

