Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

Own | Ru

×

REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

137 26.03.1999

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
RESOLUTION
See previous edit.

INFORMATION RESOURCES
PREPARATION AND THEM
DATA TRANSMISSION
IN THE NETWORKS, INCLUDING,
PROCEDURE FOR DISTRIBUTION ON THE INTERNET
THE REGULATION OF
ON APPROVAL
Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
preparation of resources and them
data transmission
including networks
Order of distribution on the Internet
Regulations on
I. GENERAL RULES
II. TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
III. INFORMATION RESOURCES,
INFORMATION PRODUCTS
AND INFORMATION EXCHANGE
PROPERTY OF MEANS
RIGHT
IV. INFORMATION
LEGAL OF EXCHANGE
PROCEDURE
V. INFORMATION RESOURCES
FORMATION
VI. INFORMATION RESOURCES
DATA TRANSFER
IN THE NETWORK, INCLUDING,
DISTRIBUTION ON THE INTERNET

PREPARATION OF INFORMATION RESOURCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN AND THEIR DATA
REGULATIONS ON THE PROCEDURE FOR DISTRIBUTION IN TRANSMISSION NETWORKS, INCLUDING THE INTERNET
ON APPROVAL

(Title of the Resolution as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 215 of May 7 , 2004 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004
y., No. 19, Article 220)

Expansion and regulation of access to global information networks, information resources of the Republic of Uzbekistan
training and dissemination of issues and their protection, from data transmission services
In order to regulate its use, the Cabinet of Ministers decides:
See previous edit.

1. The following:
In the field of preparation of information resources of the Republic of Uzbekistan and their data transmission, including
Regulations on the procedure for distribution on the Internet in accordance with the Annex;
(Item 1 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 215 of May 7 , 2004 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004,
No. 19, Article 220)
See previous edit.

2. Ministries, departments, enterprises, institutions, organizations, public, which are operators (providers) and subscribers
associations and citizens to accept the transmission of information (turnover) at the resolution indicated in paragraph 1
Let them strictly follow the statute.
(Paragraph 2 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 215 of May 7 , 2004 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004,
No. 19, Article 220)
See previous edit.

3. Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Information and
the rules set forth in the document specified in the document, and
ensure control over compliance with the requirements.
(Paragraph 3 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 3, 2019 No 457 - Legislation
National Database, 04.06.2019, No. 09/19/457/3235)

4. Control of execution of this resolution to assign to the Deputy Prime Minister LA Akhmetov.
Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers I. KARIMOV
Tashkent,
March 26, 1999
No. 137

1999 of the Cabinet of Ministers
To Resolution No. 137 of 26 March
APPENDIX

In the field of preparation of information resources of the Republic of Uzbekistan and their data transmission, including
About the order of distribution on the Internet
NIZOM
I. GENERAL RULES
1. This Regulation expands and regulates the use of global information networks, information resources
ensuring protection, dissemination of information calling for forcible change of the constitutional order, war,
to promote oppression and pornography, to incite religious and national strife, to violate human dignity and honor
and dissemination of other information prohibited by the current legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
information resources for the rapid exchange of information on the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan in order to prevent
regulates the issues of their preparation and distribution.
2. These Provisions "About communication" , "About informatization" , "About radio frequency spectrum" , "Public
"On the media" , " On guarantees and freedom of access to information" , "Protection of consumer rights
Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Frequency Spectrum" of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan
use, formation and distribution of television and radio programs, as well as improving the efficiency of data transmission
On Additional Measures ”No. 293 of July 10, 1998 ,“ Establishment of a National Data Transmission Network and the World
on Regulation of the Use of Information Networks ” No. 52 of 5 February 1999 .
3. This Provision applies to state bodies, citizens, irrespective of patterns of ownership and departmental subordination.
enterprises, institutions and organizations, public associations.
4. This Provision "Legal status of the programs and databases created for the computer
does not affect the relations regulated by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On protection" .
II. TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
See previous edit.

5. The following terms and definitions are used in this Provision:
Documented information is recorded in a source of material with requisites that allow identification
information.
See previous edit.

Confidential information - restricted in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Uzbekistan, belongs to state secrets
documented information for which no information is available;
(Paragraph 5 of the third paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 296 of November 7, 2011, the decision
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2011, No. 45-46, Article 472)

Mass media - documented information, press, audio, audiovisual and other intended for the public
messages and materials.
Information resources - information in electronic form, data banks, databases within the information system.
An information system is information that enables the collection, storage, retrieval, processing, and use of information
an organized regulated set of resources, information technology, and communications.
Information products (products) - tailored to the needs of users and users
documented information designed or applied to meet their needs.
Information services - entities that provide users with information products (owners and property
owners).
Owner of information resources or information systems - ownership of information resources or information systems, from them
legal entities or individuals who use and dispose of them.
User (consumer) of information, means of information exchange (hereinafter referred to as user)
- access to the necessary information products or means of international information exchange
an entity that applies to and uses an owner or property owner for.
Information processes - the preparation, collection, processing, storage, retrieval, distribution and use of information
processes.
Information exchange - the transfer and receipt of information products, as well as the provision of information services.
Means of information exchange - information systems and communication networks used in the exchange of information.
Information field (environment) - activities related to the preparation, processing and use of information by entities
area.
Information security is a state of protection of the interests of the individual, society and the state in the field of information.
(Paragraph 5 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 215 of May 7 , 2004 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004,
No. 19, Article 220)

III. INFORMATION RESOURCES, INFORMATION PRODUCTS AND INFORMATION EXCHANGE
OWNERSHIP RIGHT TO MEANS
See previous edit.

6. Information resources can be public and private property.
State information resources are information resources of state bodies; state budget of legal entities and individuals
information resources created at the expense of funds; have state secrets and confidential information of legal entities and individuals
from available information resources; from documented information provided by legal entities and individuals in the prescribed manner
formed.
Individuals and legal entities created at their own expense, purchased by them on a legal basis,
documents received by the state for personal use, received as a gift or inheritance, owners of document arrays
are
In cases where state-documented information is considered a state secret or forcibly violates the constitutional order
calling for change, promoting war, oppression and pornography, inciting religious and national strife, human dignity
and disseminated in violation of human dignity and in the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
has the right to withdraw information and other information from individuals and legal entities in the prescribed manner.
The owner of the information resources containing the information included in the state secret, this property belongs only to the state authority
with the permission of the relevant authorities.
(Paragraphs one and two of item 6 of the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from May 7, 2004 of No. 215)
in the wording of the decision - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 19, Article 220)

7. The right to own information resources, the relationship between their owners, the Civil Code and
It is regulated by the Law on Informatization .
8. Inclusion of information in the state secret to the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "About protection of the state secrets"
conditions of confidential calculation and use of information are carried out in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
is carried out in the manner prescribed by.
See previous edit.

Personal data of individuals are included in the category of confidential information.
(Paragraph 2 of item 8 in the edition of the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from May 7, 2004 of No. 215
- NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 19, Article 220)

9. The right to own information products and means of information exchange.
9.1. Documented information, information resources, means of information exchange Property rights of owners
objects and are included in their property. Information products and information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Relations related to property rights to means of exchange are regulated by the Civil Code of the Republic of Uzbekistan
is filled.
9.2. Property rights relations arising from the provision or receipt of information services
is determined by the contract between the owner or owner of the information products and the user. Information service
does not grant copyright to the user for the documented information obtained.
9.3. Information products, if they contradict the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan and international agreements
otherwise, it is a commodity.
IV. LEGAL PROCEDURE FOR INFORMATION EXCHANGE
10. Exchange of confidential information, mass media is practiced in the present Provision and in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan
in the manner prescribed by other existing normative documents.
11. Use of means of information exchange.
11.1. From the means of information exchange in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan only by their owner or by them
used at the discretion of the authorized person.
See previous edit.

11.2. Confidential information To the permission to work with confidential information when distributed on the data transmission network
for individuals and legal entities who have and use certified means of information exchange
protection is ensured.
(Sub-item 11.1 of item 11 in edition of the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from May 7, 2004 of No. 215
- NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 19, Article 220)

11.3. When extraordinary circumstances of the operation of the means of information exchange are detected - an error
teams, as well as unauthorized actions or false information by service personnel or other persons
due to the fact that when the commands appear, the owner of these tools to the control authorities to carry out information exchange
and must inform the owner of the interacting means of information exchange in a timely manner, otherwise he
responsible for the damage caused.
12. Connecting information systems, networks to the means of information exchange.
12.1. Connecting information systems, networks to the means of information exchange Information activity and data
according to the decision of the interdepartmental coordination commission on improvement and increase of efficiency of transmission
when licenses are available.
See previous edit.

12.2. A state with special rules for the use of information resources in the structure of information exchange
connection of information systems, networks after certification in accordance with the requirements of information security Uzbekistan
With the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(Paragraph 12.2 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated November 7, 2011 No 296 - NGO RU,
2011, No. 45-46, Article 472)

12.3. Use of means of information exchange and information products.
13. Use of means of exchange and information products by individuals and legal entities Uzbekistan
In accordance with the rules established by the owner of these tools and products in accordance with the laws of the Republic
is increased.
The owner of the means of information exchange and information products are the rules of use established by him
must be open and accessible to the user.
14. Coordination and regulation of activities in the field of information exchange.
Coordination and regulation of activities in the field of information exchange Information activities and data transmission
by the Interagency Coordination Commission for Improvement and Efficiency.
15. Certification of information products, information services, means of information exchange.
See previous edit.

15.1. Import of information products and services subject to certification into the Republic of Uzbekistan
the importer provides a certificate confirming that these products and services meet the established requirements.
(Paragraph 15.1 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 194 of September 14, 2006, decision of the foreign citizens 37, 2006.
No. 38, Article 378)

15.2. Information exchange tool used in the preparation and dissemination of information containing state secrets,
it is also mandatory to certify the information security tool.
16. Restrictions on the exchange of information.
16.1. The following:
state secret or confidential information;
national property;
archive fund;
Shipment (export) may be restricted by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
sending (export) of other information included in the category of documented information from the Republic of Uzbekistan is limited.
16.2. Calling for forcible change of the constitutional order, promoting war, oppression and pornography,
information inciting religious and national conflicts, violating human honor and dignity, and current legislation
The importation and dissemination of other information prohibited by
16.3. The owner of the documented information, information resources, information products, means of international exchange
on the actions of individuals to restrict the exchange of information, if these actions are unjustified and its
has the right to appeal to the court if he violates his rights.
17. Liability for violations in the exchange of information.
Individuals and legal entities for illegal actions in the exchange of information Residents and non-residents of the Republic of Uzbekistan shall be liable in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
V. FORMATION OF INFORMATION RESOURCES
18. Organizations specializing in the formation of state information resources and information resources in conjunction with the state
must obtain a permit for this type of activity for the design, construction and operation of data transmission networks.
19. Information systems designed for the formation and maintenance of state information resources,
databases and banks must be certified in accordance with the legislation.
See previous edit.

Information intended for the formation of public information resources, the use of which is limited
systems must be subject to mandatory certification in accordance with information security requirements.
(Item 19 according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from November 7, 2011 of No. 296
Completed - OR NGO, 2011, No. 45-46, Article 472)

20. The state, public bodies, citizens, regardless of the form of ownership and which departmental subordination, the enterprise,
duly documented information necessary for the formation of state information resources of institutions and organizations
provided to the bodies and (or) organizations responsible for the formation and use of state information resources
must
Collection and retrieval of a mandatory list of documented information and government information resources
The list of bodies and organizations responsible for the work is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
21. International cooperation in the formation of state information resources:
use of foreign information for the formation of state (national) information resources;
international standards governing the forms of information presentation, the end devices of the users themselves
to provide access to the Internet, including international communication systems and telecommunications, and
should be ensured by the introduction of telecommunications protocols.
22. The owner of information resources for violation of the rules of work with information in the manner prescribed by law
responds.
VI. INFORMATION RESOURCES IN THE FIELD OF DATA TRANSMISSION, INCLUDING THE INTERNET
DISTRIBUTION
23. Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the basis of a contract for the distribution of information resources in the data transmission network
carried out in accordance with the documents.
See previous edit.

24. Distribution of information resources on the Internet is carried out through Internet providers.
See previous edit.

Dissemination of information on the socio-political and economic life of Uzbekistan via the Internet Uzbekistan
Coordinated by the National News Agency, the Information and Mass Communications Agency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
they go.
(Paragraph 24 in the second paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 457 of June 3, 2019 decision of the
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, 04.06.2019, No. 09/19/457/3235)

X.25, Frame Relay and ATM for working with the Internet are also from a switched telephone network
Switched channels used RRR / SLIP (Point protocol IP protocol) data transmission channels
can be used without.
(Paragraph 24 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 215 of May 7 , 2004 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004,
No. 19, Article 220)
See previous edit.
(Annex 2 repealed in accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated May 7, 2004 No 215
- NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 19, Article 220)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

