Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

Data transmission network, that is
including Internet services
approval of display rules
about
APPENDIX 1
Data transmission network, that is
including Internet services
DISCLOSURE RULES
Chapter 1. General rules
Chapter 2. Data transfer
network services
§ 1. General rules
§ 2. Provide Wi-Fi service
Chapter 3 Data transfer
use of network services
Chapter 4 Data transfer
payment for network services
Chapter 5 Operator and
providers' rights and
obligations
Chapter 6 Subscriber and
user rights and
obligations

×

Own | Ru

3038 10.07.2018

Document invalid 01.10.2020

DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES AND COMMUNICATIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
THE MINISTER
ORDER
DATA TRANSMISSION NETWORK, INCLUDING INTERNET SERVICES
ON APPROVAL OF RULES
[Registered by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan on July 10, 2018, registration number 3038]
LexUZ review
This order was approved by the Minister of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan on June 30, 2020.
MH-208 in June, "Telecommunications services" On approval of the rules of order (No. 3275,
30.06.2020) mainly loses its validity from October 1, 2020.

Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan " On Telecommunications ", " Consumer protection
about the laws of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On May 1, 2018, the Cabinet of Ministers No. 318"
Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Ministry of Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Communications, Informatization and Telecommunications under the Ministry of Technology and Communications Development
In accordance with the Resolution "On approval of the Regulations on the inspection in the field of technology" :
1. To approve Rules of rendering of the data transmission network, including the Internet services according to appendix 1 .
2. To recognize as invalid some departmental regulatory legal acts according to appendix 2 .
3. This order becomes effective after three months from the date of official publication.
Minister A. AXMEDXADJAYEV
Tashkent,
May 21, 2018,
173-son

Chapter 7 Obligations
ensure compliance

Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
technologies and communications
Minister of Development May 21, 2018
Order No. 173
APPENDIX 1

Chapter 8 Final rules
APPENDIX 2
That it has lost its power
found departmental normativeLIST OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS

Provision of Internet services, including data transmission network

RULES
These provisions are reflected in the Civil Code of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan " Telecommunications
"," communication "," the law "On the protection of the rights of consumers and Uzbekistan
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated March 26, 1999 No 137 "Preparation of information resources of the Republic of Uzbekistan and
on approval of the Regulation on the procedure for their distribution in data transmission networks, including the Internet
in accordance with the decision of the Internet, including the data transmission network (hereinafter referred to as the data transmission network
) rules for the provision of services.
Chapter 1. General rules
1. In these rules the following basic concepts are used:
GSM-gateway - the transfer of traffic between mobile networks and other telecommunications networks
hardware and software designed for
IP gateway - To transfer traffic between IP networks and other telecommunications networks
intended hardware and software;
IP address - computers or nodes in a data transmission network managed by TCP / IP technology
unique identifying address;
IP TV (IPTV) - TV, video, audio, text, graphics and other similar information, IP protocol
based networks to ensure the required level of quality, security, interactivity and reliability
purpose-managed multimedia services;
IP telephony - IP-based packets are spoken over packet-switched data transmission networks
information exchange services, including local, long-distance and international communications;
SMS-gateway - hardware and software that allows you to send and receive SMS messages without using a mobile phone
engine;
Wi-Fi service organizer is Wi-Fi technology for using data network services
from their peripheral equipment on, to a narrow range of users who are customers or visitors
the data transmission network operator or data transmission network services that provide access to the equipment
provider or subscriber - a legal entity;
Wi-Fi services are the edge over Wi-Fi technology for using data network services
providing access to the equipment to a limited number of users;
subscriber - with a data transmission network operator or data transmission network service provider
legal entity or individual that has entered into a contract and is a consumer of data transmission network services;
authentication is the identification provided by the user of the data transmission network services
determine the authenticity of the data;
domain name - given to an information resource or information system to identify them on the Internet
a unique name to serve;
domain name system - assignment, registration and use of domain names on the Internet
order;
identification - the identity of the user of data transmission network services on the basis of available data
determination;
The Internet is a single, unified gateway that uses a single address and name space
A global international network (managed networks) consisting of many networks operating under the TSR / IP protocol
association);
Public Internet access point - for a fee for users to use the Internet
or a place to provide free services;
data transmission - data (provided in digital form, for processing by electronic means
valid information, including speech, text, facsimile messages, dynamic images (video), etc.)
in the form of binary signals, telecommunications tools for subsequent processing with computer technology tools
move from one point to another through;
data transmission network - a single service, provision and payment in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan
designed to provide data transmission services to all individuals and legal entities on the basis of the principles of
telecommunication network;
data transmission network operator (hereinafter referred to as the operator) - property rights or
having a data transmission network on the basis of other intellectual property rights, ensuring its operation, development and
legal entity providing data transmission network services;
data transmission network services - signals through the data transmission network of the operator and the provider and
the product of activities for the reception, transmission and processing of other types of information;
data network service provider (hereinafter referred to as provider) a legal entity that provides data transmission network services to users on a commercial basis through a network of operators;
user of data network services (hereinafter referred to as user)
- a legal entity or an individual who is a consumer of data transmission network services;
hosting services - technical resources for hosting information on a server that is constantly on the Internet
delivery service;
2. Rendering of data transmission network services of the operator and the provider in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan
related activities are carried out on the basis of a license in accordance with the legislation.
3. From the data transmission network and data transmission network services by the operator or provider
provision of use, interactions between operators and providers, as well as operators or
The interaction of providers with subscribers is carried out on the basis of a written or electronic contract
is increased.
Chapter 2. Data transmission network services
§ 1. General rules
4. The list of data transmission network services is made between the operator or provider and the subscriber
must be specified in the data transmission network services contract.
5. Provision of the following types of data transmission network services through the data transmission network
you can:
use of data transmission network (according to different standards), traffic transit, as well as data
use of international transmission networks, including the Internet;
use of real-time information resources and information systems;
receiving and transmitting electronic messages (including e-mail);
cryptographic and other protection of confidential information;
small (sub) network allocation;
registration and maintenance of the domain and domain name system;
IP address allocation and retention;
IP telephony and IP television (IPTV);
hosting services.
Other services of the data transmission network in accordance with the legislation of the operator or provider
can show.
6. Provision of data transmission network services in case of emergency "On Telecommunications"
It is carried out in the manner prescribed by law .
§ 2. Provide Wi-Fi service
7. Wi-Fi service organizer provides free or paid Wi-Fi services to a limited number of users
can show. Terms of determining the limited range of users by the Wi-Fi service organizer
determined. When providing Wi-Fi service, the duration of the session should not exceed 24 hours.
8. Organization of free Wi-Fi service on the territory of the subscriber-legal entity, which is the organizer of Wi-Fi service
on the basis of the hardware or software of the operator or provider in accordance with the contract with the operator or provider
can be done.
9. Wi-Fi service organizer:
together with the operator or provider, in the identification of users and in the legislation
take hardware and technical measures to keep track of web resources (log-files) used in the prescribed manner;
together with the operator or provider to ensure the protection of information resources, Uzbekistan
To call for the forcible change of the existing constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic;
to promote violence and terrorism, as well as the ideas of religious extremism, separatism and fundamentalism, national, racial,
dissemination of information inciting ethnic or religious hatred, as well as pornography
take measures to prevent the dissemination of other information prohibited by law.
10. If the Wi-Fi service is provided by the subscriber - a legal entity, the subscriber is a legal entity and the operator or
the agreement between the provider provides information on the provision of Wi-Fi service to users,
as well as the measures to be taken to identify users.
11. Identify users by mobile phone number or in an identity document
other registration information made on the basis of data (air tickets, railway tickets, hotel
registration information and other similar information).
When identifying the user by mobile phone number, SMS to the user's mobile phone number
a one-time password (One Time Password - OTP) is sent through the message and the user is authenticated. Here's one
the one-time password (One Time Password - OTP) must have a limited duration of activity (no more than 10 minutes).
12. Wi-Fi service organizer through the user's personal data and telecommunications networks
must ensure the confidentiality of transmitted messages, except as otherwise provided by law.
Chapter 3 Use of data transmission network services
13. Operator or provider to subscribers in accordance with the Law "On Consumer Protection"
provide timely, necessary, accurate and understandable information about the data transmission services provided by him
condition
The following information must be provided to the subscriber by the operator or provider:
the name of the operator or provider, postal address, affiliates who cooperate with users and subscribers
name, location, mode of operation and contact numbers;
license number and validity period issued to the operator or provider;
the procedure and conditions for the provision of data transmission network services;
subscriber interfaces and data transmission protocols used;
restrictions on the provision of data transmission network services;
tariff plans;
from the data transmission network during a specific tariff plan, marketing campaigns or during events
privileges or discounts in the provision of services;
list of paid and non-paid services of data transmission network usage;
terms and forms of payment for data transmission network services;
procedure for consideration of applications and complaints of subscribers;
telephone numbers of information service and technical support service (if available);
information on the information service system;
on the availability of technical capabilities in the areas of data transmission network services
information.
14. The following information is mandatory in the contract between the operator or provider and the subscriber
must be specified:
place and date of the contract;
the name of the operator or provider;
operator or provider account details;
license details issued to operators or providers;
the term of the contract;
subscriber information;
form and procedure of calculation;
rights, obligations and responsibilities of the parties;
tariff plan, cost of services;
terms of damage elimination;
quality indicators (maximum data transfer rate, minimum guaranteed data transfer rate,
maximum time of data transmission delay);
list of services to be provided (if necessary).
The contract shall specify other information in accordance with the legislation in accordance with the agreement between the parties
possible.
15. After the subscriber concludes a contract with the operator or provider, the operator or provider depends on the method of connection
In this case, provides the subscriber with the necessary parameters for connection (IP-address and other address details), data transmission
Provides guidance on how to work and use the network, the user 's necessary equipment (computer,
modem, fax) and recommends the necessary software.
16. One-time data transmission network services at the point of public use of the Internet
Regulations on the procedure for providing users with access to information on the Internet in public places
(registration number 1393, July 30, 2004).
17. Information related to the provision of data transmission network services by the operator or provider
creates a system of information services to provide to subscribers.
The following information is not provided by the operator or provider within 24 hours upon request of the subscriber
without any restrictions:
on the services provided by the data transmission network;
on tariffs for data network services;
payment to the subscriber for the status of his personal account and the use of data transmission network services
Debt services, including those connected to the subscriber: time, speed, received and (or) data transmission
the amount of information transmitted, as well as the balance of traffic at limited traffic tariffs;
on technical failures.
Chapter 4 Payment for data transmission network services
18. Tariffs for data transmission network services shall be established between the parties in accordance with the legislation
specified in the contract.
19. The form and procedure of settlements in accordance with the legislation, the technological capabilities of the operator or provider
is determined by the operator or provider in agreement with the subscriber and is reflected in the contract and
calculations are performed.
20. Tariffs for data transmission network services are set in the national currency and all payments are national
currency.
21. Services provided to the subscriber using automated billing systems by the operator or provider
(time, speed of data transmission, volume of received and (or) transmitted information, as well as the movement of subscriber's funds and
others).
22. Work performed by the operator or provider for the purpose of making calculations on the basis of the contract and
provides information to the subscriber on payment for services rendered. The following information must be provided:
operator or provider details and contact telephone numbers;
accounting period;
cost of work performed;
a list of services provided, the accounting period for each service and the amount paid for them;
amount of value added tax (if levied);
total amount to be paid;
date of invoice submission;
payment term.
23. In case of maintenance of the subscriber's account by the operator or provider, the payment is indicated
information about the subscriber in connection with changes in the terms of the contract between the operator or provider and the subscriber
balance adjustments on the account, as well as previous accounts received and reflected in the subscriber's account.
information on the subscriber's fees for services during the book period.
Chapter 5 Rights and obligations of operators and providers
24. The operator and the provider have the following rights:
a) providing services to subscribers and users;
b) services to the subscriber in the following cases by notifying the subscriber in advance within the period specified in the contract
pause show:
in case of violation of the terms of the contract by the subscriber, including timely payment for services rendered
when not paid;
Approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated March 26, 1999 No 137 Uzbekistan
Procedure for preparation of information resources of the Republic and their distribution in data transmission networks, including the Internet
in case of violation of the requirements of the regulations ;
c) demand compensation for damages caused by the fault of the subscriber;
g) organizational measures, technical and tariff for the provision of services to the subscriber without harm to the subscriber
independent policy setting and implementation;
d) accounting of the used web resources of the data transmission network by the subscriber (logorganization of file maintenance) in the manner prescribed by law;
e) to complain about illegal actions of the subscriber in accordance with the legislation;
j) when connecting GSM, IP or SMS-gateways to the data transmission network without notifying the operator, including
cases of illegal use through the installation of special hardware and software in the data transmission network
unilateral cessation of services when detected.
The operator and provider may have other rights in accordance with the legislation.
25. The obligations of the operator and the provider are:
a) carry out its activities in accordance with the legislation, on the basis of a license and these Rules;
b) performance of works and provision of services within the period and to the extent specified in the contract;
c) laws and by-laws, including technical regulations, normative documents on standardization
as well as ensuring the quality of services provided in accordance with the contract;
g) subscribers using its website and (or) media, as well as subscribers
and provide the following information at user workplaces:
on changes in the procedure and conditions for the provision of services, including changes in tariffs for services at least 10 days before the amendments come into force;
on change of working hours, postal address and bank details - from the moment of making the corresponding changes;
d) non-performance or improper performance of the contract, as well as at the request of the subscriber
recalculation for non-provision of services or non-provision of services of the level specified in the contract
to make a book;
e) repairs and adjustments that may lead to a violation of the normal mode of service to subscribers and
immediate notification of the timing and duration of the start of preventive work;
j) ensuring uninterrupted, round-the-clock provision of services;
h) at the request of the subscriber on the current status of mutual settlements reflected in his account
including information on services received by the subscriber: time, speed, received and (or) data transmission
provide detailed information on the amount of information transmitted;
i) to ensure the protection of information resources, the existing constitutional system of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
to call for the forcible change of territorial integrity, war, violence and terrorism, as well as religious extremism,
to propagate the ideas of separatism and fundamentalism, to incite national, racial, ethnic or religious hatred,
as well as other information aimed at promoting pornography and the distribution of which is prohibited by law
take measures to prevent its spread;
k) verbal appeals of subscribers received immediately, in writing or through information systems
review within fifteen days from the date of receipt by the operator;
l) legislation on the use of data transmission networks to users once a month, as well as
issue a note on the need to comply with these rules. The text of the note message is telecommunications
formed by a specially authorized body in the field;
m) Identification of users during the provision of Wi-Fi service and in the legislation
take hardware and technical measures to keep track of web resources (log files) used in the prescribed manner;
n) illegal transfer of international and long-distance traffic, including from GSM, IP or SMS-gateways, including
take measures to combat illegal use of the network through the installation of special hardware and software;
The operator or provider may also perform other obligations imposed on them in accordance with the legislation
possible.
26. The operator or provider may provide additional services or a specific service for a fee to the subscriber
to force to receive other services for rendering, as well as payment for services not provided by the subscriber
not entitled to charge.
27. Through the personal data and data transmission networks of the operator or provider users
must ensure the confidentiality of transmitted messages, except as otherwise provided by law.
Chapter 6 Rights and obligations of the subscriber and user
28. Subscriber and user have the following rights:
use of quality and uninterrupted services of the operator or provider provided by the contract;
the obligations of the operator or provider specified in these rules, as well as its data transmission
to demand fulfillment of obligations under the contract for the provision of network services;
refusal to pay for services not provided for in the contract;
require compensation for damage caused by the fault of the operator or provider in the manner prescribed by law
to do;
termination of the contract with the operator or provider in the manner prescribed by law.
In case of violation of the terms of data transmission network services by the subscriber operator or provider,
if the contract is not executed on time or the works (services) are not performed within the period specified in the contract
as well as the quality of work performed and services provided is lower than specified in the terms of the contract
has the right to demand:
free elimination of shortcomings;
a new data network service that can be provided under agreement with the operator or provider
setting a deadline;
request a recalculation of the cost of data transmission network service.
The subscriber and the user may have other rights in accordance with the legislation.
29. From an operator or provider before a natural or legal person enters into a contract with an operator or provider
has the right to receive the following information:
list of basic and additional services provided;
cost of services provided, tariffs;
methods of organization of communication and access of the subscriber's data transmission network;
connection and service order;
rules for providing services;
guaranteed level of service, level of quality, subscriber information on the operator, provider server
guaranteed level of protection and other information.
30. The following are the obligations of the user:
transfer of information that is a state secret or other secret protected by law from the data transmission network
not to be used for;
the existing constitutional order, territorial integrity of the Republic of Uzbekistan through the data transmission network
incitement to violent change, war, violence and terrorism, as well as religious extremism, separatism and
propaganda of fundamentalist ideas, incitement to national, racial, ethnic or religious hatred, as well as pornography
not to disseminate information and other information, the dissemination of which is prohibited by law;
using a data transmission network undermines the honor and dignity of citizens or the business reputation
not to disseminate information that allows the provider to interfere in their private lives;
commercial or non-commercial information that is prohibited by law from being disseminated through a data transmission network
not to be used for distribution purposes;
not to transfer (not to duplicate) the attributes of access to the data transmission network to other persons;
information or software that may contain computer viruses or damage to the network
not to announce or extend;
from computer information, ie information from computer systems, networks and their components
not to use illegally (without permission);
copyright for the object of information and intellectual property provided in the data transmission network
not to break
Other obligations may be imposed on the user in accordance with the legislation.
31. The following are the obligations of the subscriber:
compliance with the terms of the contract with the operator or provider;
payment for services provided within the period specified in the contract;
the operator or provider for all faults in its end (terminal) equipment, network and software or
notification of changes;
non-fulfillment or inadequate fulfillment of the terms of the contract in accordance with the legislation or otherwise
compensation for damage caused to the operator or provider as a result of illegal actions;
GSM, IP or SMS gateways or similar hardware and software for the provision of telecommunications services
notify the operator or provider of the intention to use the means;
not to use the data transmission network for the purpose of illegal transfer of international and long-distance traffic, that is
including via GSM and IP gateways.
Other obligations may be imposed on the subscriber in accordance with the legislation.
Chapter 7 Ensuring the fulfillment of obligations
32. Damage to the data transmission network was not eliminated within the period specified in the contract
In this case, the operator, provider pays a fine in the amount specified in the contract at the request of the subscriber.
The operator is obliged to pay a fine (penalty) by the provider under the contract
does not exempt from the performance of obligations.
33. Operator, provider, Wi-Fi service organizer is not at your disposal (under the direct control and supervision)
the content of resources, servers and segments of the data transmission network, their availability and performance
will not be responsible for the ability.
34. Failure of the Subscriber to fulfill its obligations, including services within the period specified in the contract
will be liable under the contract for non-payment of.
35. Disputes related to the provision of data transmission network services are resolved in the manner prescribed by law
is done.
Chapter 8 Final rules
36. Persons guilty of violating the requirements of these rules shall be liable in accordance with the legislation.
37. These rules promote the privatization of enterprises of the Republic of Uzbekistan and the development of competition
agreed with the State Committee and the Chamber of Commerce.
Chairman of the State Committee for Privatization and Development of Competition R. GULYAMOV
May 21, 2018

Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry A. IKRAMOV
May 21, 2018
Information of the Republic of Uzbekistan
technologies and communications
Minister of Development May 21, 2018
Order No. 173
APPENDIX 2

Departmental normative legal acts that have been declared invalid
LIST
1. Resolution of the Director General of the Communications and Information Agency of Uzbekistan No. 285 of August 25, 2004 “Information
Order "On approval of the rules for the provision of transmission networks, including Internet services" (registration number
1417, October 5, 2004) (Collection of Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 40-41, Article 441)
2. To the state committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan on communication, informatization and telecommunication technologies
No. 25-mh of May 16, 2006 “On the rules of data transmission networks, including Internet services
Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Amendments" (registration number 1417-1, May 22, 2013)
Collection, 2013, No. 21, Article 275)
3. To the Minister of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Paragraph 14 of the Rules of data transmission networks, including Internet services
Order of the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Amendments" (registration number 1417-2, May 25, 2015)
Collection, 2015, No. 21, Article 277)
(National Database of Legislation, July 11, 2018, No. 10/18/3038/1490)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

