Page 1

INFOGOBIERNO LAW

Page 2

Infogvernment Law
Infogvernment Law.

THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
FROM THE BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
Decrees
The next,
INFOGOBIERNO LAW
TITLE I
FUNDAMENTAL PROVISIONS
Chapter I
General rules

Object of the law
Article 1. The purpose of this Law is to establish the principles, bases and guidelines that govern the use
of information technologies in the Public Power and People's Power, to improve the management
public and the services provided to people; promoting transparency in the public sector;
participation and full exercise of the sovereign right; as well as promoting the development of
free information technologies in the State; guarantee technological independence; the
social appropriation of knowledge; as well as the security and defense of the Nation.
Area of ​application
Article 2. The following are subject to the application of this Law:
1. The organs and entities that exercise the National Public Power.
2. The bodies and entities that exercise the State Public Power.
3. The bodies and entities that exercise Public Power in the metropolitan districts.
4. The organs and entities that exercise the Municipal Public Power and in the other local entities
provided for in the Organic Law of Municipal Public Power.
5. The organs and entities that exercise Public Power in federal agencies.
6. National, state, metropolitan and municipal public institutes.
7. The Central Bank of Venezuela.
8. Public universities, as well as any other institution in the university sector of
public nature.
9. Other national, state, district and municipal public law persons.
10. Societies of any nature, foundations, companies, civil associations and the

1

Page 3
others created with public funds or directed by the people referred to in this article, in
those designated by their authorities, or when the budgetary contributions or contributions in a
exercise carried out by the persons referred to in this article represent the fifty or
more than your budget.
11. Organizations and organizational expressions of People's Power.
12. Natural or legal persons, insofar as applicable, under the terms established in
this law.
13. The others established by law.
Purpose of the law
Article 3. The purposes of this Law are:
1. Facilitate the establishment of relations between the Public Power and the people through the
information technologies.
2. Establish the necessary and timely conditions that promote the continuous improvement of the
services that the Public Power provides to people, thus contributing to the effectiveness, efficiency and
efficiency in the provision of public services.
3. Universalize people's access to free information technologies and guarantee their
appropriation for the benefit of society.
4. Guarantee the exercise of rights and the fulfillment of people's duties, through
of information technologies.
5. Promote the empowerment of People's Power through the generation of media
participation and organization of people, making use of information technologies.
6. Guarantee the transparency of public management, facilitating people's access to the
public information.
7. Support the strengthening of participatory and protagonist democracy in public management and
exercise of social comptroller.
8. Contribute to the modes of organization and operation of the Public Power, supporting the
simplification of the administrative procedures and procedures that they carry out.
9. Establish the principles for the normalization and standardization in the use of technologies of
information, to the subjects subject to the application of this Law.
10. Promote the acquisition, development, research, creation, design, training, socialization, use
and implementation of free information technologies to subjects subjected to the application of
this law.
11. Establish the bases for the National Information Protection and Security System, in
the terms established in this Law and by other legal instruments that regulate the matter.
12. Promote technological independence and thereby strengthen the exercise of national sovereignty,
on the basis of the knowledge and use of free information technologies in the State.

two

Page 4
Public interest and strategic nature
Article 4. Information technologies, especially information technologies, are of public and strategic interest.
free information technologies, as an instrument to guarantee the effectiveness, transparency,
effectiveness and efficiency of public management; deepen the participation of citizens in the
public affairs; the empowerment of People's Power and contribute co-responsibly to the
consolidation of national security, defense and sovereignty.
Definitions
Article 5. For the purposes of this Law, the following shall be understood as:
1. Electronic action: Capable of producing legal effects.
2. Open access: Characteristic of public documents that refers to their availability
free on the public internet, which allows any user to read, download, copy, distribute,
print, search or add a link to the full text of those articles, track them for your
indexing, incorporating it as data in software, or using it for any other purpose than
is legal, without financial, legal or technical barriers, apart from those that are inseparable from access
same to the internet. The only limitation on reproduction and distribution, and the sole role of the
copyright regarding economic rights in this area, should be to give the authors the
control over the integrity of their work and the right to be properly recognized and cited.
3. Source code: Text written in a specific programming language, containing a
set of instructions that can be compiled to generate a program that runs in a
computer, is the set of lines of text written in a specific programming language,
that when processed by the appropriate compilers and interpreters, generate exactly
said program that is executed by the computer.
4. Free knowledge: It is all that knowledge that can be learned, interpreted, applied,
taught and shared freely and without restrictions, being able to be used for the resolution of
problems or as a starting point for the generation of new knowledge.
5. Cryptography: Initial branch of mathematics and currently also of computer science, which
makes use of methods and techniques with the main purpose of making unreadable, encrypting and protecting a
message or file by means of an algorithm, using one or more keys.
6. Electronic document: Digitized document that contains data, designs or information
about a fact or act, capable of causing legal effects.
7. Open standards: Technical specifications, published and controlled by an organization
that is responsible for their development, accepted by the information technology industry, and that
are available to any user to be implemented.
8. Free Hardware: Hardware devices, electronic or mechanical components designed to
its use in any technical scientific area, whose specifications and schematic diagrams are of
public access, guaranteeing full access to knowledge of its operation and manufacture, and
that recognizing copyright, are not subject to legal regulations of the system of
proprietary appropriation patents, granting the same freedoms contemplated in the software
free for use for any purpose and in any area of ​application, freedom of modification
and adaptation to specific needs, and the freedom to redistribute them.
9. Computer forensics: also called forensic computing, forensic computing, forensic analysis.
3

Page 5
digital or digital forensic examination is the application of specialized scientific and analytical techniques to
technological infrastructure that allows identifying, preserving, analyzing and presenting data that are
valid within a legal process.
10. Critical infrastructures: Critical infrastructures, also known as strategic, are
those that provide essential services and whose operation is essential and does not allow
alternative solutions, so their disturbance or destruction would have a serious impact on
such services.
11. Interoperability: The ability of disparate and diverse organizations to
exchange, transfer and use, in a uniform and efficient way, data, information and documents
by electronic means, between its information systems.
12. Instructional norms: All those administrative measures of general effects,
instructions or circulars, of a mandatory nature, issued in order to guarantee the effective use of
information technologies and computer security, in the terms established in this Law.
13. People's Power: It is the full exercise of sovereignty by the people in politics,
economic, social, cultural, environmental, international, and in all areas of development and
development of society, through diverse and dissimilar forms of organization, which build the
communal state.
14. Technological foresight: The technological foresight also known as surveillance
technological, is a systematic process that analyzes the current state and prospects for progress
scientific and technological to identify strategic areas of research and emerging technologies
to concentrate investment efforts and thus obtain the greatest economic benefits or
social, technological foresight is oriented to a set of techniques that make it possible to define the
relevance of a technology at a future time.
15. Information security: Condition resulting from the establishment and maintenance of
means of protection, which guarantee a state of inviolability from influences or hostile acts
that may lead to access to unauthorized information, or that affect the
operability of the functions of a computer system, under the principles of confidentiality,
integrity, privacy and availability of information.
16. Free software: Computer program in whose license the author or developer guarantees the
user access to the source code and authorizes him to use the program for any purpose, copy it,
modify and redistribute it with or without modifications, preserving in any case the moral right to the
acknowledgment of authorship.
17. Information technology: Technologies for the application, analysis, study and
automatic processing of information. This includes processes of: obtaining, creating,
computation, storage, modification, handling, movement, transmission, transmission, reception,
distribution, exchange, visualization, control and administration in electronic, magnetic,
optical, or any other similar or equivalent means that are developed in the future, that involve
the use of physical and logical devices.
18. Free information technologies: These are technologies with open standards that
guarantee access to all source code and the transfer of associated knowledge for your
understanding; freedom of modification; freedom of use in any area, application or purpose and
freedom of publication of the source code and its modifications.

4

Page 6
19. Usability: Refers to the attributes that information systems must have in order for them to be
easily understood, learned and used by its users.
Chapter II
Principles and bases of the use of information technologies
Mandatory use of information technologies
Article 6. The Public Power, in the exercise of its powers, must use the technologies of
information in their internal management, in the relationships they maintain between the organs and entities of the
State that conform it, in its relations with the people and with the Popular Power, in accordance with
with this Law and other applicable regulations.
The Popular Power must use information technologies in the terms and conditions
established by law.
Equality principle
Article 7. The obligation established in the previous article shall in no case be understood as a
mode of restriction or discrimination for people, therefore, access to the provision of
Public services, as with any action of the Public Power, must be guaranteed by any
existing environment, without prejudice to the measures that this Law and the regulations that are
establish, in order to make effective the right of people to use the technologies of
information in its relations with the State.
Right of the people
Article 8. In relations with the Public Power and the People's Power, people have the right to:
1. Address requests of any kind making use of information technologies, leaving the
Public Power and People's Power obliged to respond and resolve them in the same way as if
were carried out by traditional means, under the terms established in the Constitution
of the Republic and the Law.
2. Make payments, file and settle taxes, comply with pecuniary obligations and
any other kind of obligation of this nature, making use of information technologies.
3. Receive notifications by electronic means in the terms and conditions established by law
that governs the matter of data messages and the special rules that regulate it.
4. Access public information through electronic means, with the same degree of reliability
and security than that provided by traditional media.
5. Access electronically the files that are processed in the state in which they are
find, as well as know and present the electronic documents emanating from the bodies and
entities of the Public Power and Popular Power, making use of information technologies.
6. Use and present before the Public Power and other natural and legal persons, the documents
electronic issued by it, under the same conditions as those produced by any other
medium, in accordance with this Law and applicable regulations.
7. Obtain copies of electronic documents that are part of procedures in which
whether you have the condition of interested party.

5

Page 7
8. Have mechanisms that allow the exercise of social comptroller making use of the
information technologies.
9. Use free information technologies as a means of participation and organization of the
Popular power.
Principle of legality
Article 9. The actions carried out by the Public Power and the People's Power must be subject to the
allocation, distribution and exercise of their powers in accordance with the provisions of the
Constitution of the Republic, this Law and the rules that govern the matter.
Document preservation principle
Article 10. Electronic communications, documents and actions carried out by the Power of Attorney
The Public and People's Power will be preserved in accordance with the conditions determined by Law
and the applicable special regulations.
Digital repository of Public Power and People's Power
Article 11. The Public Power must have digital repositories in which the information is stored.
information they handle, as well as the documents that make up the electronic file, in order to
that they are accessible, preserved or archived, in accordance with this Law and the
regulations that regulate the matter.
The Popular Power is subject to the obligation established herein in the terms and conditions of the
regulations to this effect are issued.
Digital repository of computer programs
Article 12. The Public Power and the People's Power must register before the competent authority the
computer programs that they use or possess; your licensing, source code and other information
and documentation determined by the corresponding instructional standard.
Principle of transparency
Article 13. The use of information technologies in the Public Power and People's Power
guarantees access to public information to people, facilitating as much as possible the publicity of
their actions as an essential requirement of the democratic and Social State of Law and Justice,
Except for information classified as confidential or secret, in accordance with the law that
regulate access to public information and other applicable regulations.
Accessibility principle
Article 14. The Public Power, jointly responsible with the Popular Power, participates in the
development, implementation and use of free information technologies, in order to guarantee the
people, under equal conditions, access and social appropriation of the knowledge associated with
those technologies.
Accessibility and usability conditions
Article 15. In the design and development of systems, programs, equipment and services based on
information technologies, accessibility and usability considerations must be anticipated

6

Page 8
necessary so that these can be used universally by those people who, for
reasons of disability, age, or any other condition of vulnerability, require different
types of information media or channels.
Promotion of knowledge of information technologies
Article 16. It is the duty of the Public Power, jointly responsible with the People's Power, to guarantee
to all people, through the educational system the means for training, socialization,
dissemination, innovation, research and communication in the field of free information technologies,
according to the guidelines of the governing bodies in the matters.
Training
Article 17. The Public Power must provide training in the field of communication technologies.
free information of their respective labor groups, so that they interact with the systems and
applications, efficiently performing their tasks and functions in public management. In addition
It must facilitate the training of people, in order to guarantee the social appropriation of knowledge.
Internet portal
Article 18. The organs and entities of the Public Power and the People's Power, in the exercise of their
competences, they must have an internet portal under their control and administration. The integrity,
veracity and updating of the published information and the public services provided through
of the portals is the responsibility of the owner of the portal. The information contained in the portals of
The internet has the same official character as the printed information they issue.
Information services
Article 19. The services provided by the Public Power and the Popular Power through the portals
Internet must be accessible, simple, expeditious, reliable, relevant and auditable, and must
contain complete, current, timely and truthful information, in accordance with the law and regulations
applicable special.
Right to participate in the promotion of services and use of the technologies of
information
Article 20. The Public Power and the Popular Power are obliged to guarantee on their portals of
internet the exercise of the right of people to participate, collaborate and promote the use of
free information technologies, creation of new electronic services or improvement of
already existing.
Mechanisms for exercising social control
Article 21. The services provided by the Public Power and the People's Power must contain
mechanisms that allow the promotion, development and consolidation of the social comptroller as
means of participation of people and their social organizations, to guarantee that the
public investment is carried out in a transparent and efficient manner, in the interests of the
society and that the activities of the private sector do not affect collective or social interests.
Proportionality principle
Article 22. In the actions carried out by the Public Power and the People's Power through the
information technologies, only the necessary security measures will be required of people
7

Page 9
according to the nature of the procedures and actions to be carried out. Likewise, the data that
are strictly necessary to process the matters you have requested, for the purposes of
guarantee compliance with the principles and rights established in the Constitution of the
Republic and the law.
Safety principle
Article 23. In the electronic actions carried out by the Public Power and the People's Power,
must guarantee the integrity, confidentiality, authenticity and availability of the information,
documents and electronic communications, in compliance with the rules and measures dictated by the
body with competence in matters of information security.
Certification and electronic signature services
Article 24. The Public Power must guarantee the integrity, confidentiality, authenticity and
availability of information, through the use of certificates and electronic signatures issued
within the chain of trust of electronic certification of the Venezuelan State, in accordance with
with the Venezuelan legal system and the legislation that governs the matter.
On the protection of personal data
Article 25. The use of information technologies by the Public Power and the People's Power
includes the protection of honor, private life, privacy, own image, confidentiality and
reputation of people; consequently, it is subject to the limitations established by law
on matter.
Validity of electronic files and documents
Article 26. Electronic files and documents issued by the Public Power and the People's Power,
that contain certifications and electronic signatures have the same legal validity and effectiveness
evidence that the files and documents that appear in physical.
Hard copies of electronic documents
Article 27. When the Law requires that a document must be presented in printed format and
found in electronic format, such requirement is satisfied when it is presented in electronic format
printed and contains a unique code that identifies it and allows its retrieval in the repository
corresponding institutional digital, in accordance with the regulations that govern the matter.
Coordination principle
Article 28. The projects and actions developed by the Public Power and the People's Power, in order to
consolidate the use of free information technologies in public management, they must be carried out in
in a coordinated manner under the terms established in this Law, and are aimed at achieving
the aims and objectives of the State, poor the base of the policies, strategies, guidelines and norms in
the matter that is dictated for this purpose.
Collaboration principle
Article 29. The Public Power and the Popular Power shall collaborate to achieve the consolidation of the use
of free information technologies in the State.
Information technology interoperability

8

Page 10
Article 30. The processes supported by information technologies in the Public Power and the
People's Power must be interoperable, in order to support the public function and management that they
provide, guaranteeing the cooperation and collaboration required to provide services and
integrated, complementary and transparent public processes, based on the principle of
organic unit.
Query system
Article 31. The Public Power must ensure that the design and construction of its systems,
programs, applications and information services have ease of use for consultation
electronic, as well as the veracity and existence of electronic documents, circumstances or
requirements that they have and are necessary to carry out a specific request, procedure or service,
without the previously described being transferred to people.
The People's Power must also guarantee that its computer systems have the same
facilities provided for the Public Power established in the previous paragraph and that established by the
corresponding regulations.
Obligation to share information
Article 32. The Public Power has the obligation to share among themselves the public information that
recorded in its files and digital repositories, in accordance with the provisions of the law that
regulate the matter on the electronic interchange of data, information and documents, except
exceptions established in the Constitution of the Republic and applicable regulations.
The People's Power shall share public information on the management of public services that
have been transferred to you, in the terms established in this article and other regulations
applicable.
State technological platform
Article 33. The Public Power must have an integrated technological platform, under its control
and administration, which allows the effective use of information technologies in their relationships
with other bodies and entities, and in their relationships with people, supporting the management of the
public sector and the participation of the People's Power in public affairs.
Of free knowledge
Article 34. The development, acquisition, implementation and use of information technologies by
Public Power is based on free knowledge. In the actions carried out with the
use of information technologies, will only use computer programs in free software and
open standards to guarantee the Public Power control over information technologies
employees and people's access to the services provided.
The computer programs used for the management of public services provided by
People's Power, through information technologies, must be in free software and with
open standards.
Of the licenses
Article 35. Licenses for computer programs used in the Public Power must
allow access to the source code and the transfer of associated knowledge for its
compression, your freedom of modification, freedom of use in any area, application or purpose and
9

Page 11
freedom of publication and distribution of the source code and its modifications. I only know
adopt those licenses that guarantee that derivative works are licensed in them
terms than the original license.
The People's Power must guarantee that the licenses of the computer programs used in the
management of the public services transferred, comply with the conditions and terms established
in this article.
Sovereignty and technological independence
Article 3. The State guarantees the social appropriation of the knowledge associated with the technologies of
free information that is developed, acquired, implemented and used in order to use it in a
independently.
Likewise, those proprietary technologies in the process of migration to free technologies must
ensure the use and performance independently. For this, sources of
financing that promote research and development programs and projects, promote the
national free information industry and promote the training of human talent in the field of
free information technology, under the terms and conditions established in this Law.
TITLE II
OF THE ORGANIZATION IN THE PUBLIC POWER FOR THE USE OF TECHNOLOGIES OF
INFORMATION
Chapter I
From the National Council for the Use of Information Technologies
Creation of the National Council for the Use of Information Technologies
Article 37. The National Council for the Use of Information Technologies in Power is created.
Public, as the highest consultation body for planning and advising the Public Power in
matters related to information technologies, contributing to the consolidation of the
national security, defense and sovereignty. It is chaired by the Executive Vice President or
Executive Vice President of the Republic and will have the purpose of promoting and consolidating the use, development,
implementation and use of information technologies in the Public Power,
by coordinating the actions to this end are established.
Conformation
Article 38. The National Council for the Use of Information Technologies in the Public Power,
It is made up of:
1. The Executive Vice President or Executive Vice President of the Republic, in his capacity as body
direct and collaborator of the President of the Republic, and in his capacity as President or
President of the Federal Council of Government, who presides over it.
2. The Ministry of People's Power with competence in planning matters.
3. The Ministry of People's Power with competence in science, technology and innovation.
4. The Ministry of People's Power with competence in matters of communes
5. The Attorney General's Office.

10

Page 12
6. The National Assembly.
7. The Supreme Court of Justice.
8. The National Electoral Council.
9. The Republican Moral Council and;
10. The Central Bank of Venezuela.
Competencies
Article 39. The National Council for the Use of Information Technologies in the Public Power
has the following powers:
1. Promote the proper use and exploitation of information technologies in Power
Public and in the Popular Power.

2. Establish guidelines, policies and strategies for access, use, promotion, acquisition and
development of free information technologies.
3. Promote the improvement of public management and quality of public services provided to the
people through information technologies.
4. Promote transparency in the Public Power, in order to guarantee the fundamental right of the
people to access public information.
5. Guarantee that the programs and projects that are implemented in the Public Power, contemplate
the requirements for its implementation and sustainability, based on the provision of the
financial, institutional and human talent capacities that are necessary.
6. Propose before the competent authorities the regulatory framework necessary to guarantee the
exploitation and use of information technologies in the Public Power and in the Popular Power,
in accordance with this Law.
7. To dictate the necessary norms for its operation, through the respective regulations that at the
effect is dictated.
8. Others determined by law.
Chapter II
From the National Commission of Information Technologies
Creation
Article 40. The National Information Technologies Commission is created, as an institute
public endowed with legal personality and own patrimony, different and independent from the
Republic, with financial, administrative, budgetary, technical, regulatory and
resource management, which will be exercised in accordance with the guidelines and policies
established by the secondment body in coordination with the Central Planning Commission,
with the privileges and prerogatives of the Republic; will be attached to the Ministry of People's Power
with competence in science, technology and innovation. This Institute will have its headquarters in the
city ​of Caracas, and may create regional directorates for the achievement of its activities in the
National territory.
eleven

Page 13
Competences of the National Commission of Information Technologies
Article 41. The competences of the National Information Technologies Commission are the
following:
1. Prepare the National Plan of Information Technologies for the State, aligned with the
guidelines established in the National Economic and Social Development Plan, and other plans
in coordination with the Ministry of People's Power with competence in matters of
planning, in accordance with applicable law.
2. Establish policies, strategies and guidelines regarding regulation, access, development,
acquisition, implementation and use of information technologies in the Public Power.
3. Establish, in coordination with the Superintendency of Certification Services
Electronics, security policies, strategies, guidelines and regulations
computing in the Public Power.
4. Establish coordination and exchange mechanisms with the Public Power and with the Power
Popular, as well as with private, national and international institutions, specialized in
information technologies and related matters.
5. Promote, jointly with the Public Power and the Popular Power, the access and use of the
information technologies, in order to contribute to management, increase efficiency, transparency,
and improve your relationships with people.
6. Establish policies for the promotion, development and strengthening of the productive sector of the
information technologies.
7. Promote the formulation and execution of initiatives that allow the promotion of research,
development, acquisition, implementation and use of information technologies in the Public Power
and in the Popular Power.
8. Manage the repository of free computer programs and computer programs
used by the Public Power and the People's Power, as well as the information associated with them.
9. Participate on behalf of the Republic before international organizations on technology
of information, in coordination with the Ministry of Popular Power with competence in matters of
External relationships.
10. Promote, in co-responsibility with the Popular Power, the innovation of the technologies of
information, promoting research and development programs and projects that promote the
national industry of information technologies and the training of human talent.
11. Ensure that the plans and projects that are implemented are aligned with the policies
national promotion of the national information technology industry.
12. Authorize the Public Power, on an exceptional basis, the use of information technologies
Private, in the cases and conditions established in this Law and applicable regulations.
13. Grant, suspend and revoke the certification of computer programs, equipment and services
in the field of information technologies, to be developed, acquired, implemented and used
by the Public Power and the Popular Power.

12

Page 14
14. Grant, suspend and revoke accreditations to the verification service units on
computer programs, equipment and services in the field of information technology,
compliance with applicable regulations.
15. Ensure that public officials, public officials, employees and female employees in the service
of the Public Power, acquire the competencies and skills necessary to fulfill their roles of
effective way, through education, training and education programs in information technology
information and computer security.
16. Collaborate in the formulation of policies, strategies and guidelines regarding regulation,
access, development, acquisition, implementation and use of information technologies in the Power
Public.
17. Establish policies, strategies, guidelines and regulations on security matters
computing in the Public Power.
18. Execute the guidelines, policies and strategies for access, use, promotion, acquisition and
development of free information technologies, emanating from the National Council for the Use of
Information Technologies in the Public Power.
19. Guarantee the improvement of public management and the quality of public services provided to
people, through information technologies.
20. Ensure compliance with the rules regarding free information technologies and
of information security are dictated.
21. Promote transparency in the Public Power, in order to guarantee people the right to
fundamental to access to public information.
22. Establish coordination and collaboration mechanisms between the Public Power and the Popular Power,
in order to promote the electronic exchange of data, information and documents; The analysis of
common problems and the realization of joint projects in the field of
information.
23. Guarantee compliance with policies; guidelines, standards and required procedures
for the electronic exchange of data, information and documents in order to establish a
interoperability standard.
24. Resolve conflicts that arise in relation to access and electronic exchange of data, from
information and documents or the inappropriate use of them, in accordance with the terms and conditions
established in the Decree with Rank, Value and Force of Law on Access and Electronic Exchange
of Data, Information and Documents between the organs and State Entities.
25. Promote effective information security management to protect the assets of
information and minimize the impact on services caused by vulnerabilities or incidents of
safety.
26. Guarantee that the programs and projects implemented in the Public Power contemplate
the requirements for its implementation and sustainability, based on the provision of the
financial, institutional and human talent capacities that are necessary.
27. Promote the optimization of the use of information technology resources of the
State, by promoting proper asset management, through collaboration
13

Page 15
interinstitutional, the rationalization of purchases and the implementation of relevant solutions of
in accordance with the Law.
28. To dictate the applicable instructional rules and procedures in the development, acquisition,
implementation and use of information technologies, as well as the services associated with those
technologies.
29. Inspect and monitor compliance with the provisions of this Law, as well as the
regulations regarding its competence.
30. Open ex officio or at the request of a party, substantiate and decide administrative procedures
penalties provided for in this Law and applicable regulations, within the scope of its competence.
31. Dictate preventive and corrective measures in the course of the administrative procedures of its
competition, when required.
32. Take administrative or judicial actions of any kind to safeguard and
protection of your rights and interests.
33. Ensure compliance with the provisions of this Law and other acts that it dictates, whose
surveillance is his responsibility.
34. Others determined by law.
Heritage
Article 42. The assets of the National Information Technologies Commission will be
Constituted by.
1. The annual resources that are assigned in the Budget Law for the fiscal year
correspondent;
2. Other income and assets that may be assigned or transferred by organs and entities of the Power
Public;
3. Assets from donations, bequests and legal contributions;
4. Their own income, obtained from the development of their activities and from the services they provide;
5. What is collected by taxes, in accordance with the provisions of this Law;
6. The fines for the infractions according to the present Law;
7. The other assets acquired by any title.
Directorate of the National Commission of Information Technologies
Article 43. The Directorate of the National Commission of Information Technologies will be in charge
of a Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will be made up of a director general,
who will preside over the Institute, and four directors, who will be freely appointed and
removal of the President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, each of the
which will have a substitute, designated or designated in the same way, who will fill in the gaps
temporary. The temporary absences of the Director General will be replaced by the
Director or Principal Director that he or she designates.
14

Page 16
Quorum
Article 44. The Board of Directors will validly meet with the presence of the director.
general, or whoever takes their place, and two directors. Decisions will be made by
absolute majority of the members of the Council when all its members are present
members, and unanimously when the minimum quorum occurs.
The ordinary regime of sessions of the Board of Directors will be determined by the internal regulations
will dictate in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
Prohibition to integrate the Board of Directors
Article 45. They may not be appointed director or general director or members of the
Board of directors or alternates:
1. People who are related up to the fourth degree of consanguinity or second of
affinity, or they are spouses of the President of the Republic, of the Executive Vice President
o Executive Vice President of the Republic or of the highest authority of the governing body or of some
member of the directorate of the National Commission of Information Technologies.
2. Those for their own benefit or that of a third party, directly or indirectly, have entered into contracts
of work or supply of goods or services with the National Commission of Technologies of
Information and they have not, settled in the year immediately prior to their designations.
3. Those who have a conflict of interest with the position to be held.
4. People who have been declared bankrupt, guilty or fraudulent, and the
Convicted or convicted of crimes against public property.
Responsibility of the members of the Board of Directors
Article 46. The members of the Board of Directors will be responsible for civil, criminal, disciplinary and
administratively of the decisions adopted in their meetings in accordance with the laws that
they rule matter.
Powers of the Board of Directors
Article 47. The Board of Directors has the following powers:
1. Submit for the consideration of the governing body all policies, strategies and guidelines in
matter of regulation, access, development, acquisition, implementation and use of the technologies of
information in the Public Power as well as in the Popular Power, when carrying out public negotiations.
2. Approve and discuss the annual operating plan and balance sheet, as well as the financial statements
of the National Commission of Information Technologies, according to the projects presented
by the Director General.
3. To issue the internal regulations of the National Information Technology Commission.
4. Approve the creation, modification or suppression of regional directorates that are considered
necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes of the National Information Technology Commission.
5. Approve the statute of public officials and public officials of the National Commission
of Information Technologies.
fifteen

Page 17
6. Authorize the Director General to sign and update agreements and contracts that
are aimed at the development, marketing, production and streamlining of activities and
projects related to free information technologies, with prior authorization from the governing body.
7. Authorize the subscription and sale of movable and immovable property owned by the Commission,
in accordance with the provisions of the law that governs the matter.
8. Authorize the Director General of the National Technology Commission,
together with two members of the Board of Directors, to open, mobilize and close the accounts
benches of the institute, complying with the rules that govern the matter.
9. The others conferred by the laws and their respective regulations.
Chapter III
Of the attributions of the National Commission of Information Technologies
Powers of the Director General
Article 48. Corresponds to the Director General of the National Commission of the
Information technologies:
1. Exercise the representation of the Institute and issue the guidelines to organize, administer,
coordinate and control the human, material and financial resources of the Institute.
2. Authorize the performance of inspections or audits.
3. Order the opening and substantiation of administrative sanctioning procedures.
4. Appoint, remove or dismiss the personnel of the Institute and exercise the disciplinary power, of
conformity with the procedures of the corresponding statute.
5. Celebrate on behalf of the Institute, prior approval of the Board of Directors, agreements and contracts
with national and international organizations, in accordance with the law.
6. To dictate the general guidelines for the elaboration of the budget project, the plan
annual operating and balance sheet of the Institute, and submit it to the approval of the Board of Directors,
in accordance with the law.
7. Grant powers for the judicial and extrajudicial representation of the Institute.
8. Delegate powers to sign certain documents, in the cases determined by the
internal regulations of the Institute.
9. Exercise the powers of the Institute that are not expressly attributed to another authority.
10. Prepare and present the draft of the Institute's internal regulations for the consideration of the
Board of Directors.
11. Convene and preside over the meetings of the Board of Directors, as well as sign the acts and documents
that emanate from their decisions.
12. Present the Institute's report and account for the consideration of the Board of Directors and the
Ministry of Popular Power with competence in science, technology and innovation.

16

Page 18
13. Others conferred by law and regulations.
Regime of civil servants and officials
Article 49. Public officials and civil servants of the National Commission of the
Information Technologies will be governed by the Law of the Statute of Public Function, except
special provisions that the National Executive decides on the recruitment, selection, admission,
the development, the evaluation, the promotions, the transfers, the suspensions in the exercise of the positions,
the valuation of the positions, the salary scales and the discharge. The subjects listed in
this article are of public order; cannot be waived or relaxed by individual agreements or
collectives, nor by acts of the authorities of the National Commission of Technologies of
Information.
Chapter IV
Of the support units
Support units
Article 50. The following are support units for the purposes of this Law:
1. The standardizing body for the use of information technologies.
2. The standardizing body in computer security.
3. Any other instance that is linked to the object and purposes of this Law.
Normalizing entity
Article 51. The standardizing body in the field of information technologies and the body
standardizer in information security, they will perform the functions of support units
specialists of the National Commission of Information Technologies, in the matters of its
competence and in accordance with the operating rules issued by the Commission.
First section: standardizer of information technologies
Competent authority
Article 52. The National Center for Information Technologies, an entity attached to the body with
competence in information technology, is in charge of supporting the National Commission of
Information Technologies to standardize the development, acquisition, implementation and use of these
technologies in the Public Power and the People's Power, in accordance with the policies, guidelines and
strategies established for this purpose.
Competencies
Article 53. The National Center for Information Technologies has, in the scope of application of
this Law, the following attributions:
1. Propose lines of investigation to the National Information Technology Commission
for the development of computer programs and equipment that support the solution of problems in the
Public Power and People's Power.
2. Contribute to training and dissemination for the social appropriation of knowledge in technologies
of free information in the country.
17

Page 19
3. Request from the Public Power and the People's Power the necessary information for the fulfillment of their
functions, within the scope of its competence.
4. Collaborate with the National Information Technology Commission in promoting access
and exchange of data, information and documents between the organs and entities of the Public Power, as well
as between these and the Popular Power.
5. Exercise the functions of a specialized support unit for the National Commission of the
Information technologies.
6. Present the annual report on its management to the governing body and to the National Commission of
Information technologies.
7. Coordinate with the competent body the procedures, actions and activities necessary for the
development of the management of the Venezuelan System for Quality in terms of technologies of
information in the Public Power.
8. Ensure compliance with the provisions of this Law and other acts that are issued, whose
surveillance is his responsibility.
9. The other attributions determined by the Law.
Second section: standardizer in computer security
Of the Superintendency of Electronic Certification Services
Article 54. The Superintendency of Electronic Certification Services, attached to the Ministry
of the Popular Power with competence in matters of science, technology and innovation, is the body
competent in computer security, and is responsible for the development, implementation,
execution and monitoring of the National Computer Security System, in order to safeguard the
authenticity, integrity, inviolability and reliability of data, information and documents
electronic obtained and generated by the Public Power and the People's Power, as well as the
generation of content on the web.
Competencies
Article 55. The Superintendency of Electronic Certification Services will have, in the field of
application of this Law, the following powers:
1. Develop, implement and coordinate the National Computer Security System.
2. To dictate the instructional standards and applicable procedures regarding security.
computing.
3. Establish mechanisms for the prevention, detention and management of incidents generated in the
information systems and critical infrastructures of the State, through the management of
computer security vulnerabilities and incidents.
4. Articulate and insert in the Public Power and the Popular Power the initiatives that arise in the matter
computer security, aimed at privacy, data protection and critical infrastructures,
as well as intervene and respond to the risks and threats that threaten the information
let them drive.

18

Page 20
5. Propose to the governing body lines of investigation associated with computer security that supports
the solution of problems in the Public Power and in the Popular Power.
6. Contribute to the training of people and the labor component, which promotes the
establishment of a culture of safeguarding and control over the information assets present in
information systems.
7. Perform expert opinions on digital media, prior compliance with the relevant legal procedure,
supporting the competent authorities in investigations, expertise and related inspections
with digital evidence.
8. Evaluate digital storage media, according to search criteria
established in the request of entities or agencies of the State that so require.
9. Extract, review and analyze the traces and logs of network equipment and tools.
10. Audit the operation and integrity of applications and databases where it is presumed
built-in inconsistencies for the purpose of causing harm.
11. Provide technical advice on computer forensics to the bodies that support the
criminal investigation.
12. Manage the public registry of approval of equipment or applications with support
cryptographic.
13. Execute the functions of the specialized support unit of the National Commission of the
Information Technologies in the Public Power, in the area of ​its competence.
14. Present the annual report on its management to the governing body and to the National Commission of
Information technologies.
15. Coordinate with the competent body the procedures, actions and activities necessary to
the development of the management of the Venezuelan Quality System in terms of computer security
in the Public Power and in the Popular Power.
16. Others established by law.
Verification service units
Article 56. The National Information Technology Commission, after compliance with the
conditions determined by the corresponding instructional standard, may accredit people
natural or legal, the quality of a unit of verification and certification services, in order to
perform auditing functions on computer programs, computer equipment or
Information technology services to be developed, acquired, implemented and
used by the Public Power and the People's Power, to verify compliance with the
provisions of this Law and other applicable regulations.
Chapter V
Of the subsystems that make up the National Protection and Security System
Computing
Subsystems that make up the National Computer Protection and Security System

19

Page 21
Article 57. The purpose of the National Computer Protection and Security System is to protect,
safeguard, mitigate, and improve the response capacity of the Public Power and the People's Power
against risks and threats derived from the development of information systems. The system
National Protection and Computer Security is made up of:
1. National Cryptography Subsystem
2. National Subsystem for Telematic Incident Management
3. National Subsystem of Forensic Informatics
4. National Data Protection Subsystem.
The respective Regulation will establish the terms and conditions of implementation of the System.
National Protection and Computer Security.
Approval, certification and homologation of cryptographic equipment or applications
Article 58. The Superintendency of Electronic Certification Services, in order to
guarantee the integrity, quality and technological independence, approve, certify and homologate the
equipment or applications with cryptographic support used by the Public Power and the People's Power.
Of the public homologation registers and their purposes
Article 59. The Superintendency of Electronic Certification Services is the body in charge
to supervise and demand the certificates
TITLE III
OF THE TRIBUTES
Chapter I
Contributions for prosecutors
Contributions for commercial activities
Article 60. All legal persons whose object is the importation, distribution and
commercialization of proprietary software to the Public Power, they will pay the National
Information Technologies two and a half percent (2.5%) of the net profit for the year. It
canceled for this concept, it will be carried out within ninety days following the closing of the
fiscal exercise.
The amount in bolivars of the cancellation of this contribution will be deducted from the payment of the Tax
About the Rent.
Contribution for services
Article 61. Any person who provides proprietary software services to the Public Power, will pay a
contribution of one and a half percent (1.5%) of the retail profit for the year, to the Commission
National Information Technology, within ninety days following the end of the fiscal year
fiscal.
The amount in bolivars of the cancellation of this contribution will be deducted from the payment of the
Income tax.

twenty

Page 22
Chapter II
Of the rates and special contributions
Certification
Article 62. The Public Power must request before the National Commission of the Technologies of
Information, certification of compliance with the provisions of this Law and other
applicable regulations of computer programs for computer equipment according to their type or
model, which causes a rate of fifty Tax Units (50 TU).
Of the fees for certification and homologation of the equipment or applications with support
cryptographic
Article 63. The homologation of the equipment or applications with cryptographic support, to which it does
Mention Article 58, will have a duration of three years and your request for processing will cause a
rate of three hundred tax lenidades (300 UT). Supported applications and equipment
Free cryptographic will be exempt from paying the fee provided in this article.
Process
Article 64. The processing of the application for accreditation or renewal as a unit of services of
Verification and certification will be conducted in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Law
Organic of Administrative Procedures, and will cause the payment of a fee that may not be higher
of thirty Tax Units (30 TU) nor less than fifteen Tax Units (15 TU).
Accreditation content
Article 65. The corresponding accreditation will contain, in addition to the points required by the
Organic Law of Administrative Procedures and those established in the National Registry
of Contractors the following:
1. The type of accreditation in question.
2. The determination of the characteristics and the services it provides.
3. The time during which it is granted may not exceed two years.
4. The express reference to the instructional norm that contains the functions and obligations of the
verification and certification service units.
Exception from the use of free computer programs
Article 66. The National Information Technologies Commission, exceptionally, may
authorize, for up to three years, the acquisition and use of software that does not comply with the conditions
of open standards and free software, when there is no developed program to replace it
or the security and defense of the Nation is at risk.
The National Information Technology Commission, when authorizing the use of proprietary software,
establish the conditions and terms for the development of an equivalent software version
free and open standards.
Of special contributions for the use of proprietary software
Article 67. The body or entity of the Public Power as well as the Popular Power that is authorized to
twenty-one

Page 23
acquire, use and update proprietary software, you must pay a special contribution to the Fund
National Science, Technology and Innovation the equivalent amount between five percent (5%)
and ten percent (10%) of the acquisition value of the proprietary software. This contribution must
be carried out within the fiscal year corresponding to the acquisition of the program.
Likewise, the body or entity of the Public Power and the People's Power must pay a contribution
special to the National Fund for Science, Technology and Innovation equivalent to between five percent
(5%) and ten percent (10%) of the value corresponding to the expenses associated with the support and use of the
proprietary software.
The contributions referred to in this article must be made until the
proprietary software for free software with open standards.
The respective regulations will determine the basis for calculating the tax rate to be paid.
Destination of parafiscal contributions and fees
Article 68. The resources product of the collected by concept of parafiscal contributions and
rates, will be destined to the development and promotion of the free information technologies sector, in a
amount not less than fifty percent (50%) of the proceeds, and the rest will be part of the
own income of the National Commission of the Technologies of Information.
Chapter III
Common provisions
Tax powers
Article 69. The National Information Technologies Commission shall exercise the powers and
Duties attributed by the Organic Tax Code to the Tax Administration, in relation to
with the taxes established in this Law. Likewise, the Ministry of Popular Power with
competence in science, technology and innovation will exercise the powers and duties of the
referred to in this article, with regard to the rates corresponding to the National Fund for
Science, Technology and Innovation.
TITLE IV
DEVELOPMENT OF THE FREE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES SECTOR
Promotion of the national industry of free information technologies
Article 70. The Venezuelan State, through the Ministry of Popular Power with competence in
science, technology and innovation, together with the National Technology Commission

of Information promote the development, strengthening and consolidation of the national industry of
free information technology, guaranteeing the exercise of technological sovereignty and development
integral part of the nation. To this end, it promotes:
1. Research programs in priority sectors for national development and
technological independence with free information technologies.
2. National research in free information technologies.
3. Regional innovation poles in the Republic that associate research with industry
National free information technologies.

22

Page 24
4. Financing research, innovation and development in free information technologies,
as well as training in these technologies.
5. Programs that promote the creation of independent consultants, creators and creators in
free information technologies.
6. The creation and development of socially owned companies in free information technologies,
according to the communal economic system.
7. Technological foresight.
8. Programs to attract and train male and female researchers and enhance human talent in
free information technologies.
9. The social appropriation of knowledge through training plans in technologies of
free information.
10. The creation, development and articulation of a national network of technical support in technologies of
free information.
11. The rationalization of the use of resources through the deployment of infrastructure aimed at
free information technology services.
12. A knowledge base that promotes the social appropriation of information technologies
free.
13. Promote and support, together with the Ministry of People's Power with competence in
matter of communes, the conformation of the communes of free technologies, integrated by the
users, users, activists, groups and communities of the software and hardware free of the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, in accordance with this Law and other regulations
applicable.
14. Any other mechanism that allows establishing incentives that promote the industry
National free information technologies.
Of financing with public funds
Article 71. Financing with public funds is aimed at promoting an economic system
productive partner of free information technologies, which develops the activities of
research, design, creation, development, production, implementation, technical assistance,
documentation and services related to both free software and hardware
Tax exemptions
Article 72. The National Executive may exonerate, totally or partially, the payment of the tax for
net enrichment from the sale of goods and provision of services in information technology
free, in accordance with the provisions of the legislation governing tax matters.
Resources for free information technologies
Article 73. The National Fund for Science, Technology and Innovation will allocate, in addition to the
contributions collected in accordance with articles 63 and 64 of this Law, a percentage not less than
two percent (2%) of the resources derived from contributions for science, technology and

2. 3

Page 25
innovation, for the financing of promotion programs and plans to consolidate the
national industry of free information technologies, in accordance with the provisions of article 70
of this Law.
TITLE V
RIGHT AND GUARANTEE OF PEOPLE ON ACCESS TO INFORMATION
Nature of the information
Article 74. The information that appears in the files and records in the Public Power and in the Power
Popular is of a public nature, except in the case of information on honor, private life,
privacy, own image, confidentiality and reputation of people, security and defense of the
Nation, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic, the law that regulates the
matter on protection of personal data and other laws that govern the matter.
Provision of information
Article 75. The Public Power and the People's Power, through information technologies, are
required to notify individuals:
1. That the information will be collected in an automated way;
2. Its purpose, use and with whom it will be shared;
3. The options they have to exercise their right of access, ratification, deletion and opposition to the
use of the aforementioned information and;
4. The security measures used to protect said information, the registry and file, in
the databases of the respective organizations.
Prohibition of requiring physical documents
Article 76. The Public Power and the People's Power cannot demand from people, the consignment
of documents in physical format containing data or information that are exchanged
electronically, in accordance with the law.
Information protection
Article 77. The Public Power and the People's Power have the obligation to protect the information that
obtains through the services it provides through information technologies and that which
rests in your files or electronic records, in the terms established in this Law, and other
laws that regulate matter.
Treatment of personal data of children and adolescents
Article 78. Upon request of the legitimated person, the Public Power and the People's Power, through
of information technologies, can collect data from children and adolescents in relation to
to their rights and guarantees enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic and the regulations
correspondent.
The recipient of the data must give it priority, indicate the rights that assist him and the regulations
applicable to carry out the requested procedure for the benefit of the child or adolescent. One time
that this information is obtained will be used only for the purposes of the procedure.

24

Page 26
Prohibition of sharing personal data of children and adolescents
Article 79. The information referred to in the previous article may not be disclosed, transferred,
transferred, or shared with any natural or legal person, without the prior consent of their
legal representative, except when the minor is emancipated, in the investigation of facts
punishable, by a court order, or when so determined by law. The express consent that is
Has given about the information of the child or adolescent can always be revoked.
TITLE VI
SANCTIONING REGIME
Responsibility of public officials, public officials, public servants and
public servants
Article 80. All those persons who exercise a public function, incur responsibility
civil, criminal and administrative for the infractions committed to this Law.
Of infractions and fines
Article 81. Regardless of the responsibility referred to in the previous article, all
those people in the exercise of a public function, incur responsibility and will be
sanctioned by the National Information Technology Commission, according to the procedure
established in the Organic Law of Administrative Procedures, with a fine included
between fifty Tax Units (50 TU) and five hundred Tax Units (500 TU), for the
following offenses:
1. Omit the elaboration, presentation or implementation of the Institutional Plan of Technologies of
Information, in the terms indicated in this Law and in the applicable regulations.
2. When they order or authorize the development, acquisition, implementation and use of programs,
information technology equipment or services that do not comply with the conditions and terms
established in this Law and regulations applicable to the matter, without prior authorization from the
competent authority.
3. When they fail to comply with the instructional rules, technical rules and standards dictated by the
competent authority in accordance with the law.
4. When you do not register with the competent authority the computer programs that use or
possess; its licensing, source code and other information and documentation in accordance with
the law.
5. When in their electronic actions, they omit the use of electronic certificates and signatures.
6. When they use equipment or applications with cryptographic support without the corresponding approval,
certification and approval of the competent authority.
7. When it alters a data, information or document supplied by the information services.
8. When using paca purposes other than those requested, the data, information or documents
obtained through an information service.
9. When you deny, obstruct or delay the provision of an information service.

25

Page 27
10. When you deny or provide complete or inaccurate information on the use of the
information technologies, computer security or interoperability.
11. Require the consignment, in physical format, of documents containing authorship data,
information or documents that are exchanged electronically.
12. When they fail to comply with the quality levels established for the provision of
information.
13. Celebrate, by itself or through third parties, agreements whose purpose is to exchange
electronic data, information or documents with other organs or entities of the State, without the
prior authorization from the competent authority.
Delegation for the initiation and conduct of the administrative procedure
Article 82. The National Information Technologies Commission may delegate to the
support units, the initiation and substantiation of administrative sanctioning procedures
for the infractions committed to the present Law.
Disabling
Article 83. Without prejudice to the other corresponding sanctions, the Comptroller General of the
The Republic, in an exclusive and exclusive manner, will disqualify the public servant or public servant, from
compliance with the corresponding procedure in the following cases:
1. When it is denied, obstructs or delays, unjustifiably, the provision of a service of
information that has been ordered by the competent authority in accordance with the law.
2. When you acquire proprietary software without having been expressly authorized by the authority
competent.
Revocation of accreditation and certification
Article 84. The National Information Technologies Commission will revoke accreditations
of the verification and certification service units, as well as the certifications that are
granted in accordance with this Law, following the procedure provided in the Organic Law of
Administrative Procedures, for the following reasons:
1. Failure to comply with the conditions established in the instruction standard to the corresponding
for the granting of accreditation or certification.
2. Providing false information to obtain accreditation.
3. When in the control, inspection or audit of a computer program, a team of
computing or information service, the procedures have been breached in the terms
established in the corresponding instructional standards.
4. When you have certified a computer program, computer equipment or service
information without complying with the provisions of this law and other applicable regulations.
TRANSITORY DISPOSITIONS
First. The Public Power and the People's Power, within ninety days following the entry into
validity of this Law, they must register with the National Commission of Information Technologies
26

Page 28
the computer programs they are using or possess, licenses and other associated documentation,
in accordance with the corresponding instructional regulations.
Second. In the event that any body or entity of the Public Power or the Popular Power, for the moment
of entry into force of the present Law, have information technologies that do not comply
with what is established here, they must submit to the National Commission of
Information, within the following twelve months, an institutional plan for the adaptation or migration of
information technologies for approval.
Third. The Public Power and the People's Power must prepare the institutional plans
corresponding to implement the use of free information technologies in their management
internalize their relations with other bodies and entities, with the Popular Power and with the people. These
plans must be submitted to the National Information Technology Commission, in the
conditions and terms established by the corresponding instructional norm and the
application of the necessary corrections when they contravene the law and the corresponding regulations.
Quarter. As of the publication in the Official Gazette of this Law, the National Center for
Information Technologies and the Superintendency of Electronic Certification Services,
will proceed with its restructuring, adaptation, organization and operation in accordance with
the powers attributed in this Law, and a maximum period of ten months is established for such
effects.
REPEALING PROVISIONS
First. Decree No. 3,390 dated December 23, 2004 is repealed, by means of which the
provides that the National Public Administration will use Free Software as a priority
developed with Open Standards in its computer systems, projects and services, published
in the Official Gazette of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela No. 38,095 dated December 28,
2004.
Second. Chapter I of Title III and Title V of the Decree with Rank, Value and Force are repealed
of the Law on Access and Electronic Exchange of Data, Information and Documents between
Bodies and State Entities, published in the Official Gazette of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
No. 39,945 dated June 15, 2012.
FINAL PROVISIONS
First. Any computer program that is developed, acquired or implemented in the Public Power,
After the entry into force of this Law, it must be in free software and with standards
open, except for the exceptions expressly established by law and with prior authorization from the entity
competent.
Second. The Public Power must proceed to digitize its physical files. The messages
of data resulting from this digitization will be electronically signed by the person
authorized, in order to certify said copies electronically.
Third . This Law shall enter into force after ten months have elapsed counted from
its publication in the Official Gazette of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.

Given, signed and sealed in the Federal Legislative Palace, headquarters of the National Assembly, in Caracas,
on the seventeenth day of September two thousand thirteen. 203 ° years of Independence and 154 °
27

Page 29
of the Federation.
GODDED HAIR RÓNDON
President of the National Assembly
DARIO VIVAS VELAZCO
First Vice President
WHITE EKHOUT
Second Vice President
VICTOR CLARCK BOSCÁN
Secretary
FIDEL ERNESTO VÁSQUEZ L.
Undersecretary
Promulgation of the Infogvernment Law, in accordance with the provisions of article 213 of the
Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
Miraflores Palace, in Caracas, on the tenth day of October, two thousand thirteen. 203 years of
Independence, 154th of the Federation and 14th of the Bolivarian Revolution.
Be fulfilled,
(LS)
NICOLÁS MADURO MOROS
Republic President

28

