Page 1

Signed by: Government Portal
Email: thongtinchinhphu@chinhphu.vn
Agency: Government Office
Signing time: 06.01.2016 10:43:11 +07:00

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015
CONGRESS

3

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness

Law No.: 88/2015/QH13

THE LAW
ACCOUNTANT
Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;
The National Assembly promulgates the Law on Accounting .
Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Scope
This Law stipulates the contents of accounting work, the organization of the accounting apparatus, the people who
accounting, business activities of accounting services, state management of accounting and
professional organization of accounting.
Article 2. Subjects of application
1. Agencies in charge of state budget revenues and expenditures at all levels.
2. State agencies, organizations and non-business units using the state budget.
3. Non-business organizations and units that do not use the state budget.
4. Enterprises established and operating under Vietnamese law; branch,
representative offices of foreign enterprises operating in Vietnam.
5. Cooperatives, unions of cooperatives.
6. Business households, cooperative groups.
7. People doing accounting work.
8. Practicing accountants; businesses and households providing accounting services.
9. Professional organization in accounting.
10. Other agencies, organizations and individuals related to accounting and business activities
accounting services in Vietnam.
Article 3. Interpretation of terms
In this Law, the following terms are construed as follows:
1. Financial statements are economic and financial information systems of an accounting unit
presented according to the form prescribed in accounting standards and accounting regime.
2. Accounting regimes are regulations and guidelines on accounting in a field
sector or a number of specific jobs performed by the state management agency in charge of accounting or by an organization
promulgated by the State management agency in charge of accounting.

Page 2

4

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

3. Accounting vouchers are papers and information-carrying objects that reflect business operations
economic, financial arising and completed, as a basis for recording accounting books.
4. Accounting unit means an agency, organization or unit specified in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 .
and 5 Article 2 of this Law prepare financial statements.
5. Original cost is the initially recognized value of an asset or a liability. Price
The cost of the property is calculated including the cost of purchasing, handling, transporting, assembling, manufacturing,
variables and other directly related costs as prescribed by law until
bring the asset to a ready-to-use state.
6. Fair value is the determined value in accordance with the market price, possibly
received on the sale of an asset or the assignment of a liability at
value point.
7. Accounting forms are accounting book templates, order and method of bookkeeping and
relationship between accounting books.
8. Accounting is the collection, processing, examination, analysis and provision of information
economic, financial in the form of value, in kind and labor time.
9. Financial accounting is the collection, processing, examination, analysis and provision
economic and financial information by means of financial statements for those who wish to use them
using accounting information.
10. Management accounting is the collection, processing, analysis and provision of information
economic, financial according to management requirements and internal economic and financial decisions
accounting unit.
11. Practicing accountant means a person who is granted a practicing registration certificate
accounting service profession according to the provisions of this Law.
12. Accounting inspection is the review and assessment of compliance with the law on accounting, the
truthfulness and accuracy of accounting information and data.
13. Accounting service business means the provision of accounting and accounting services
Chief accountant, financial statement preparation, accounting consultancy and other jobs within the scope of
accounting work according to the provisions of this Law for organizations and individuals in need.
14. An accounting period is a definite period from the time the accounting unit starts
keep accounting books until the end of accounting books, close accounting books for making
financial report.
15. Economic and financial operations are specific arising activities that increase,
reduce assets, the source of asset formation of the accounting unit.
16. An accounting method is a specific method and procedure for implementing each content
accounting work.
17. Electronic means are means of operation based on electrical technology,
electronic, digital, magnetic, wireless transmission, optical, electromagnetic or industrial
similar technology.

Page 3

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

5

18. Accounting documents are accounting vouchers, accounting books, financial statements, reports
management accounting, audit reports, accounting audit reports and other documents
related to accounting.
Article 4. Accounting tasks
1. Collecting and processing accounting information and data according to public objects and contents
accounting, according to accounting standards and accounting regime.
2. Inspect and supervise financial revenues and expenditures, collection, payment and payment obligations
debt settlement; inspect the management and use of assets and the sources of asset formation; play
detect and prevent violations of the law on finance and accounting.
3. Analysis of accounting information and data; advise and propose solutions
management requirements and economic and financial decisions of the accounting unit.
4. Provide accounting information and data as prescribed by law.
Article 5. Accounting requirements
1. Fully reflect arising economic and financial operations in accounting vouchers,
accounting books and financial statements.
2. Timely and timely reporting of accounting information and data.
3. Reflect clearly, easily and accurately accounting information and data.
4. To honestly and objectively reflect the current status quo, the nature of the incident, the contents and
economic and financial value.
5. Accounting information and data must be reflected continuously from the time it is generated to the time it is generated
at the end of economic and financial activities, from its establishment to its termination
of the accounting unit; the accounting data of this period must follow the accounting data of the previous period.
6. Classify and arrange accounting information and data in order, systematically and with
comparable and verifiable.
Article 6. Accounting principles
1. Assets and liabilities are initially recognized at cost. After recording
initially received, for certain types of assets or liabilities whose value fluctuates
frequently at market prices, and their values ​can be re-determined
reliable, are recognized at fair value at the end of the reporting period
finance.
2. The selected accounting rules and methods must be applied consistently
in the annual accounting period; change in accounting rules and methods
selected, the accounting unit must explain in the financial statements.
3. The accounting unit must collect and reflect objectively, completely and truthfully and
the correct accounting period in which the economic and financial transactions arise.

Page 4

6

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

4. Financial statements must be made and sent to competent authorities fully and accurately
accurate and timely. Information and data in the financial statements of the accounting unit must be
be made public according to the provisions of Articles 31 and 32 of this Law.
5. The accounting unit must use the method of asset assessment and allocation of assets
revenues and expenditures carefully, not distorting operating results
economics and finance of the accounting unit.
6. The preparation and presentation of financial statements must ensure that they accurately reflect the
the nature of the transaction rather than the form and name of the transaction.
7. State agencies, organizations and non-business units using the state budget sách
in addition to complying with the provisions of Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this Article, it must also
perform accounting according to the state budget index.
Article 7. Accounting standards and accounting professional ethics
1. Accounting standards include basic accounting regulations and methods to
financial statements.
2. Ethical standards of accounting profession include regulations and directions
guidelines on principles and contents of applying professional ethical standards to
accountants, practicing accountants, enterprises and household businesses
accounting service.
3. The Ministry of Finance shall prescribe accounting standards and professional ethics standards
accounting on the basis of international accounting standards suitable to the specific conditions of
Vietnam.
Article 8. Objects of accounting
1. Objects of accounting in the activities of state budget revenues and expenditures, administration,
career; Activities of units and organizations using state budget include:
a) Money, supplies and fixed assets;
b) Funding sources, funds;
c) Payments inside and outside the accounting unit;
d) Revenue, expenditure and handling of the difference between revenue and expenditure;
dd) State budget revenues, expenditures and balances;
e) Financial investment, state credit;
g) Debts and handling of public debts;
h) Public property;
i) Assets, receivables and other payables related to the entity
accountant.
2. Objects of accounting that are not used by the unit or organization
The state budget includes assets and sources of property formation as prescribed in regulations of law
Points a, b, c, d and i, Clause 1 of this Article.

Page 5

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

7

3. Objects of accounting in business activities, except for activities specified in
Clause 4 of this Article, including:
a) Property;
b) Liabilities and equity;
c) Revenue, business expenses, income and other expenses;
d) Taxes and payments to the state budget;
dd) Results and distribution of business results;
e) Assets, receivables and other payables related to the entity
accountant.
4. Objects of accounting in banking, credit, insurance, securities,
Financial investments include:
a) The subjects specified in Clause 3 of this Article;
b) Financial and credit investments;
c) Payments inside and outside the accounting unit;
d) Commitments, guarantees and valuable papers.
Article 9. Financial accounting, management accounting, general accounting, detailed accounting
1. Accounting at an accounting unit includes financial accounting and management accounting.
2. When performing financial accounting and management accounting, the accounting unit kế
General and detailed accounting must be performed as follows:
a) General accountants must collect, process, record and provide general information
overview of economic and financial activities of the accounting unit. General accounting use
monetary unit to reflect the asset situation, the source of the asset formation, the situation and
economic and financial results of the accounting unit. General accounting
made on the basis of detailed accounting information and data;
b) Detailed accounting must collect, process, record and provide detailed information
in monetary units, in-kind units and labor-time units for each subject
specific accounting object in the accounting unit. Detailed accounting illustrations for accountants
synthetic. The detailed accounting data must match the general accounting data in the
an accounting period.
3. The Ministry of Finance shall guide the application of management accounting appropriate to each field
work.
Article 10. Units of calculation used in accounting
1. The currency used in accounting is Vietnam Dong, the national symbol is “đ”,
The international symbol is “VND”. In the case of economic and financial transactions,
in foreign currency, the accounting unit must record in the original currency and Vietnam Dong in

Page 6

8

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

actual exchange rate, unless otherwise provided by law; for type
Foreign currencies that do not have an exchange rate with Vietnam Dong must be converted through
a foreign currency with an exchange rate to the Vietnamese Dong.
An accounting unit that mainly collects and spends in a foreign currency is allowed to choose by itself
such foreign currency as a currency for accounting, to be responsible before the law and
notify the tax authority directly managing. When preparing financial statements used at
Vietnam, the accounting unit must convert to Vietnam Dong at the real exchange rate
economy, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. Units in kind and units of labor time used in accounting are units
legal measure of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; case of next unit
If the calculation uses another unit of measurement, it must be converted to the legal unit of measurement of the country
Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
3. Accounting units are rounded up, using abbreviated units when making or
disclose financial statements.
4. The Government shall detail and guide the implementation of this Article.
Article 11. Letters and numerals used in accounting
1. The script used in accounting is Vietnamese. In case of having to use the language
foreign countries on accounting vouchers, accounting books and financial statements in Vietnam, then
must use Vietnamese and foreign languages ​simultaneously.
2. Numerals used in accounting are Arabic numerals; after the thousands digit, the row
million, billion must put a dot (.); while writing digits after the units digit, then
After the unit digit, a comma (,) must be placed.
3. Enterprises, branches of foreign enterprises or organizations
Foreigners must transfer financial statements to the parent company or overseas organization
or use the same management and payment software with the parent company,
Overseas organizations can use commas (,) after thousands, millions,
Billion; when there is a digit after the unit digit, then after the unit digit
put a dot (.) and must be annotated in documents, accounting books, financial statements
main. In this case, the financial statements are submitted to the tax authorities, the tax authorities
Statistics and other competent state agencies must comply with the provisions of
Clause 2 of this Article.
Article 12. Accounting period
1. An accounting period includes an annual accounting period, a quarterly accounting period and a monthly accounting period
stipulates as follows:
a) The annual accounting period is 12 months from the beginning of January 1 to the end of January 31
December of the calendar year. The accounting unit has specific organizational and operational characteristics
choose an annual accounting period of 12 full months according to the calendar year, starting from the beginning of January 1
the first month of this quarter to the end of the last day of the last month of the previous quarter of the following year and
must notify the financial authority, the tax authority;

Page 7

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

9

b) The quarterly accounting period is 03 months, counting from the beginning of the first day of the first month of the quarter to the end of the quarter
the end of the last month of the quarter;
c) The monthly accounting period is 01 month, counting from the beginning of the first day to the end of the last day
of month.
2. The accounting period of a newly established accounting unit is prescribed as follows:
a) The first accounting period of a newly established enterprise is counted from the beginning of the day
be granted an enterprise registration certificate by the end of the last day of the term
annual accounting, quarterly accounting period, monthly accounting period as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article;
b) The first accounting period of another accounting unit is counted from the beginning of the decision date
establishment of an accounting unit is valid until the end of the last day of the annual accounting period,
quarterly and monthly accounting period as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
3. An accounting unit when it is divided, consolidated, merged, converted, or
form of ownership, dissolution, termination of operation, bankruptcy, the last accounting period
calculated from the beginning of the annual accounting period, quarterly accounting period, monthly accounting period as prescribed
in Clause 1 of this Article until the end of the day before the decision on division, consolidation, merger,
change of ownership type or form, dissolution, termination of operation, bankruptcy
effective accounting unit.
4. In case the accounting period of the first year or the accounting period of the last year has a
period shorter than 90 days is allowed to add to the next accounting period or plus
with the accounting period of the previous year to calculate an annual accounting period; first year accounting period
the first or last accounting period must be less than 15 months.
Article 13. Prohibited acts
1. Forging, making false statements or agreeing to, forcing others to forge, make false statements,
erasing accounting vouchers or other accounting documents.
2. Intentionally, agreeing to or forcing others to provide or confirm information, numbers
whether the accounting is untrue.
3. Keep out of accounting books of assets, liabilities of accounting units or related
to the accounting unit.
4. Destroying or intentionally damaging accounting documents before the expiration of the time limit
archives specified in Article 41 of this Law.
5. Promulgating, publicizing accounting standards and accounting regimes without authority.
6. Bribe, threaten, suppress, force accountants to perform work
accounting is not in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
7. The person responsible for managing and operating the accounting unit cum accountant,
storekeepers, treasurers, except for sole proprietorships and limited liability companies run by a
individual as the owner.
8. Arranging or hiring unqualified accountants or chief accountants
standards and conditions specified in Articles 51 and 54 of this Law.

Page 8

ten

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

9. Rent, borrow, lease, lend the accountant's certificate, the certificate
register to practice accounting services in any form.
10. Making two or more financial accounting book systems or providing and announcing the
financial statements with heterogeneous figures in the same accounting period.
11. Doing business in accounting services without being granted a Certificate of eligibility
business in accounting services or practicing accounting services when there is no guarantee
meet the conditions prescribed by this Law.
12. Use the phrase “accounting services” in the name of the business if it is already
more than 6 months from the date of issuance of the Certificate of Business Registration, but still
not be granted a Certificate of eligibility to provide accounting services or
the enterprise has terminated its business of providing accounting services.
13. Hiring individuals or organizations that do not meet the conditions for practice or business
accounting services provide accounting services for their units.
14. Practicing accountants and enterprises providing accounting services
contracts, hooking up with customers to provide or confirm incorrect accounting information and data
truth.
15. Other prohibited acts according to the provisions of the law on prevention,
anti-corruption in accounting activities.
Article 14. Value of accounting documents and data
1. Accounting documents and data have legal value of the accounting unit and are used
used for publication and publicity in accordance with the provisions of law.
2. Accounting documents and data are the basis for formulating and approving plans, estimates,
settlement, consideration and handling of law violations.
Article 15. Responsibilities for management, use and provision of accounting information and documents
1. The accounting unit is responsible for managing, using, preserving and storing documents
accountant.
2. The accounting unit is responsible for providing timely accounting information and documents,
fully, honestly and transparently for agencies, organizations and individuals in accordance with the provisions of this Law
law.
chapter II
CONTENT OF ACCOUNTING WORK
Section 1
FINANCIAL PAPER
Article 16. Contents of accounting vouchers
1. Accounting vouchers must contain the following principal contents:

Page 9

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

11

a) Name and number of the accounting voucher;
b) Date, month and year of making accounting vouchers;
c) Name and address of the agency, organization, unit or individual making the accounting voucher;
d) Name and address of the agency, organization, unit or individual receiving the accounting vouchers;
dd) Contents of arising economic and financial operations;
e) Quantity, unit price and amount of economic and financial operations written in numbers;
total amount of accounting vouchers used for money collection and payment, written in numbers and words;
g) Signature, full name of the maker, reviewer and related persons
to accounting documents.
2. In addition to the main contents of the accounting vouchers specified in Clause 1
This, accounting vouchers may have other contents according to each type
license.
Article 17. Electronic documents
1. Electronic vouchers are considered accounting vouchers when they contain the prescribed contents
in Article 16 of this Law and expressed in the form of electronic, encrypted data
without being changed during transmission over computer networks, telecommunications networks
or on information carriers such as magnetic tapes, magnetic disks, payment cards.
2. Electronic vouchers must ensure confidentiality and keep data and information safe
during use and storage; must be managed, checked against the images
exploiting, infiltrating, copying, stealing or using electronic documents
improper death. Electronic vouchers are managed as accounting documents in the form of
the original in which it was created, sent or received, but with sufficient suitable equipment
to use.
3. When paper documents are converted into electronic documents for transaction,
payment or vice versa, the electronic voucher is valid for performing the transaction
economic, financial, paper vouchers are only valid for keeping for bookkeeping and monitoring
and check, not valid for transaction, payment.
Article 18. Making and storing accounting vouchers từ
1. Economic and financial transactions arising related to the operation of the application
accountants must make accounting vouchers. Accounting vouchers are only made once for
each economic and financial operation.
2. Accounting vouchers must be made clearly, completely, timely and accurately according to the internal regulations
specified on the form. In case the accounting voucher has no form, the application
The accountant is allowed to prepare accounting vouchers but must ensure all the contents
prescribed in Article 16 of this Law.

Page 10

twelfth

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

3. Contents of economic and financial operations on accounting vouchers must not be written
turned off, not erased, repaired; When writing must use ink, numbers and letters must be right
continuously, without interruption, blank spaces must be crossed out. Documents erased or corrected
non-payment and recording in accounting books. When writing wrong accounting vouchers,
must be canceled by crossing out the wrongly written voucher.
4. Accounting vouchers must be made with the prescribed number of copies. Cases to be made
many accounting vouchers for an economic or financial transaction, the content of the
link must be the same.
5. The preparers, approvers and other persons who sign on the accounting vouchers must
take responsibility for the content of accounting vouchers.
6. Accounting vouchers made in the form of electronic vouchers must comply with regulations
specified in Article 17, Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article. Electronic vouchers are printed on paper
and archived according to the provisions of Article 41 of this Law. In case of not printing on paper,
When storing on electronic media, safety and security must be ensured
information and data and must be searchable within the storage period.
Article 19. Signing of accounting vouchers
1. Accounting vouchers must have full signatures according to the titles specified in the vouchers.
Signatures on accounting vouchers must be signed in indelible ink. Are not
be able to sign accounting vouchers in red ink or stamp with pre-engraved signatures. Word
signed on one person's accounting vouchers must be consistent. Signature on next voucher chứng
The calculation of the blind is made in accordance with the Government's regulations.
2. Signatures on accounting vouchers must be signed by an authorized person or authorized person
authorization to sign. It is strictly forbidden to sign accounting vouchers when the voucher contents are not fully recorded
is the responsibility of the signer.
3. Accounting vouchers for money payment must be approved by competent persons and accountants
Chief or authorized person to sign before implementation. Signature on next voucher chứng
Payments used to pay money must be signed for each copy.
4. Electronic vouchers must have an electronic signature. The signature on the electronic document has
valid as a signature on a paper document.
Article 20. Invoices
1. Invoice is an accounting document issued by an organization or individual selling goods or providing services
establish and record information on sales and service provision in accordance with law.
2. Contents, form of invoices, order of making, managing and using real invoices
accordance with the provisions of tax law.
Article 21. Management and use of accounting vouchers
1. Information and data on accounting vouchers are the basis for recording in accounting books.
2. Accounting vouchers must be arranged according to economic content, in chronological order
time and safely stored in accordance with the provisions of law.

Page 11

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

13

3. Only competent state agencies have the right to temporarily seize, confiscate or
sealing accounting vouchers. Cases of temporary seizure or confiscation of accounting vouchers
competent state agencies must make copies of temporarily seized or confiscated documents,
sign for certification on the copy voucher and hand over the photocopy to the accounting unit; copper
time to make a record clearly stating the reason, the quantity of each type of accounting voucher being seized or
confiscated and signed and stamped.
4. Agencies competent to seal accounting vouchers must make minutes and record
clearly stating the reason, quantity of each type of sealed accounting voucher, and signed and stamped.
Section 2
ACCOUNTING ACCOUNTS AND ACCOUNTING LOOKS
Article 22. Accounting accounts and system of accounting accounts
1. Accounting accounts are used to classify and systematize economic transactions,
finance by economic content.
2. The accounting account system includes the accounting accounts to be used. Every single
An accountant may only use one accounting system for accounting purposes
finance according to regulations of the Ministry of Finance.
3. The Ministry of Finance shall detail accounting accounts and the system of accounting accounts
Accounting applies to the following accounting units:
a) The accounting unit has the task of collecting and spending the state budget;
b) Accounting units using the state budget;
c) The accounting unit does not use the state budget;
d) The accounting unit is an enterprise;
d) Other accounting units.
Article 23. Selection to apply the accounting account system
1. The accounting unit must base itself on the system of accounting accounts set up by the Ministry of Finance
regulations to choose the accounting system applied in their units.
2. The accounting unit is entitled to detail the selected accounting accounts to serve the request
management needs of the unit.
Article 24. Accounting books
1. Accounting books are used to record, systemize and store all business transactions
arising economic and financial matters related to the accounting unit.
2. The accounting books must clearly state the name of the accounting unit; book name; date, month, year of making the book;
closing date, month, year; signatures of bookmakers, chief accountants and representatives
legal representation of the accounting unit; number of pages; sealed.

Page 12

14

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

3. An accounting book must contain the following principal contents:
a) Date, month and year of book entry;
b) Number and date, month and year of the accounting voucher used as the basis for book entry;
c) Summary of contents of arising economic and financial operations;
d) Amounts of arising economic and financial operations are recorded in accounting accounts;
dd) The opening balance, the amount arising in the period, the ending balance.
4. Accounting books include general accounting books and detailed accounting books.

5. The Ministry of Finance shall detail accounting books.
Article 25. System of accounting books
1. The accounting units must base themselves on the system of accounting books prescribed by the Ministry of Finance
to select an accounting system to be applied in the entity.
2. Each accounting unit only uses one accounting book system for an annual accounting period.
3. The accounting unit may concretize the selected accounting books to serve the requirements
entity's accounting.
Article 26. Opening, recording, closing and archiving accounting books
1. Accounting books must be opened at the beginning of the annual accounting period; for new accounting units
established, accounting books must be opened from the date of establishment.
2. The accounting units must base themselves on accounting vouchers to record in accounting books.
3. Accounting books must be recorded in a timely, clear and complete manner according to the contents of the books.
Information and data recorded in accounting books must be accurate, truthful and true to vouchers
accountant.
4. The accounting books must be recorded according to the chronological order of arising business operations
economic, financial. Information and data recorded in the accounting books of the following year must be followed
information and data recorded in the accounting books of the preceding year. Accounting books must be recorded
from opening the book to closing the book.
5. Information and data on the accounting books must be recorded in pen and ink; no writing
interleaved above or below; do not overlap; no way
current; in case the page is not fully written, the unwritten part must be crossed out; when it's all over
the page must add the totals of the page and transfer the totals to the page
next.
6. The accounting unit must close the accounting books at the end of the accounting period before making the report
financial statements and in other cases as required by law.
7. Accounting units may record their accounting books by electronic means. Case
When recording accounting books by electronic means, regulations on accounting books must be complied with
payment in Articles 24, 25 and Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of this Article, except for stamping
overlapping. After closing the accounting book on electronic means, the accounting book must be printed on paper

Page 13

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

15

and bound into a separate book for each annual accounting period for storage. School
In case of not printing on paper, accounting books are stored on electronic means
then it must ensure the safety and confidentiality of data information and must ensure that it can be looked up
during storage.
Article 27. Correction of accounting books
1. When detecting errors in accounting books, they must not be erased to lose traces
Wrongly recorded information and data must be corrected by one of the following three methods:
a) Write a correction by crossing a line in the wrong place and entering the number or
the letter is correct at the top and must be signed by the chief accountant next to it;
b) Record a negative number by recording the wrong number in red ink or recording the wrong number in the sign
parentheses, then record the correct number and must have the chief accountant's signature next to it;
c) Record the adjustment by making “adjustment voucher” and adding the difference
deviate properly.
2. In case of detecting errors in accounting books before annual financial statements tài
If it is submitted to a competent state agency, it must be corrected in the accounting books
of that year.
3. In case errors are discovered in the accounting books after the annual financial statements have been made
submitted to a competent state agency, it must be corrected in the accounting books of the
years discovered the error and explained the correction.
4. Correction of accounting books in case of electronic record-keeping
shall comply with the method specified at Point c, Clause 1 of this Article.
Article 28. Evaluation and recognition at fair value
1. Assets and liabilities are assessed and recognized at fair value
at the end of the financial statements include:
a) Financial instruments required by accounting standards must be recognized and
revaluation at fair value;
b) Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are valued at exchange rates
reality;
c) Other assets or liabilities whose value fluctuates frequently, according to
required by accounting standards to be reassessed at fair value.
2. The revaluation of assets and liabilities at fair value must be secured
authentication basis. In case there is no basis to determine the value in a certain way,
reliable, assets and liabilities are stated at cost.
3. The Ministry of Finance shall specify the recognized assets and liabilities
revaluation at fair value, the accounting method for recognition and revaluation at
fair value.

Page 14

16

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

Section 3
FINANCIAL REPORT
Article 29. Financial statements of accounting units
1. The financial statements of the accounting unit are used to summarize and explain the
financial position and results of operations of the accounting unit. Financial report of
Accounting units include:
a) Report on the financial situation;
b) Report on operation results;
c) Cash flow statement;
d) Notes to the financial statements;
d) Other reports as prescribed by law.
2. The preparation of financial statements of an accounting unit is done as follows:
a) The accounting unit must make financial statements at the end of the annual accounting period; school
If the law provides for the preparation of financial statements in a different accounting period, the accounting unit shall
must be prepared according to that accounting period;
b) The preparation of financial statements must be based on data after closing the accounting books.
The superior accounting unit must prepare general financial statements or financial statements
consolidation based on the financial statements of accounting units within the same accounting entity
superior math;
c) Financial statements must be prepared with correct content, method and presentation
consistency between accounting periods; where the financial statements present differently
between accounting periods, the reason must be clearly explained;
d) The financial statements must be signed by the preparer, chief accountant and representative
legal representation of the accounting unit. The person signing the financial statements is responsible
responsibility for the content of the report.
3. The accounting unit's annual financial statements must be submitted to the local authority
competent country within 90 days from the end of the annual accounting period
according to regulations of the Law.
4. The Ministry of Finance shall detail financial statements for each field of activity
motion; responsibility, object, period of preparation, method of preparation, deadline for submission, place of receipt of the report
financial reporting and disclosure.
Article 30. State financial statements
1. State financial statements are prepared on the basis of consolidated financial statements
of state agencies, public non-business units, economic organizations and units with
other related public sector, used to summarize and explain the situation
state financial performance, state financial performance and cash flows
currency from state financial activities on a national and local scale.

Page 15

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

17

2. State financial reports provide information on state budget revenues and expenditures
state, state financial funds, public debt, state capital in enterprises, financial
assets, capital sources and use of state capital. State financial statements
including:
a) Report on the state's financial situation;
b) Report on the results of state financial activities;
c) Cash flow statement;
d) Notes to the state financial statements.
3. The preparation of state financial statements is done as follows:
a) The Ministry of Finance is responsible for making state financial statements on the scope of
nationwide, submit it to the Government for reporting to the National Assembly; directing the State Treasury
Maintain and coordinate with financial authorities in preparing financial statements within the locality,
submit to the People's Committee of the province to report to the People's Council of the same level;
b) State agencies, non-business units, economic organizations and units with
The relevant parties are responsible for preparing their own reports and providing financial information
necessary for the preparation of state financial statements nationwide
and each locality.
4. State financial statements are prepared and submitted to the National Assembly and People's Councils
together with the time of finalization of the state budget according to the provisions of the Law on Banking
state books.
5. The Government shall detail the contents of the state financial statements; team work
organization to make and publicize state financial statements; responsibilities of institutions
agencies, units and localities in providing information for reporting purposes
State financial.
Article 31. Contents of financial statements disclosure
1. Accounting units using the state budget shall publicize information on revenue and expenditure
state budget in accordance with the Law on State Budget.
2. Accounting units not using the state budget shall publicize the final settlement of revenues,
annual financial expenditure.
3. Accounting units using the People's contributions to publicize the item
the purpose of mobilizing and using the contributions, the objects of contributions, the level of
activities, results of use and finalization of income and expenditure of each contribution.
4. Accounting units engaged in business activities shall disclose the following contents:
a) Situation of assets, liabilities and owner's equity;

Page 16

18

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

b) Business results;
c) Setting up and using funds;
d) Employee's income;
d) Other contents as prescribed by law.
5. Financial statements of accounting units that are required to be audited by law
when public, must be accompanied by the audit report of the auditing organization.
Article 32. Form and time limit for disclosing financial statements
1. The financial statements are disclosed in one or several forms
the following formula:
a) Publication of publications;
b) Notice in writing;
c) Listing;
d) Posting on the website;
d) Other forms as prescribed by law.
2. Form and time limit for disclosing financial statements of accounting units using
State budget use shall comply with the provisions of the law on budget
government.
3. Accounting units that do not use the state budget, accounting units that do not use the state budget
Using People's contributions, the annual financial statements must be disclosed
within 30 days from the date of submission of financial statements.
4. Accounting units engaged in business activities must disclose financial statements
year within 120 days from the end of the annual accounting period. Case
The law on securities, credit and insurance has specific regulations on the form, time,
The deadline for disclosing financial statements is different from the provisions of this Law
legislation in that area.
Article 33. Auditing of financial statements
1. Annual financial statements of accounting units that are required to be audited by law
Audits must be audited before submitting them to competent state agencies
and before making it public.
2. When being audited, the accounting units must fully comply with the provisions of
audit law.
3. Financial statements of the audited accounting unit when submitted to the agency
The competent state must have the audit report attached.

Page 17

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

19

Section 4
ACCOUNTING CHECKOUT
Article 34. Accounting inspection
1. The accounting unit must be subject to the accounting inspection by a competent authority.
The accounting inspection is only carried out when there is a decision of a competent authority
rights as prescribed by law, except for the agencies specified at point b, clause 3 .
This.
2. Agencies competent to decide on accounting inspection include:
a) Ministry of Finance;
b) Ministries, ministerial-level agencies, Governmental agencies and other agencies in
The Central Government shall decide to inspect the accounting of accounting units in the field of accounting
assigned in charge;
c) The People's Committee of the province shall decide to inspect the accounting units in the province
the locality under their management;
d) The superior unit shall decide to inspect the accounting of the affiliated unit.
3. Agencies competent to inspect accounting include:
a) The agencies specified in Clause 2 of this Article;
b) State inspection agencies, specialized inspectors in finance and auditing
the State, tax authorities when performing the task of inspecting, examining and auditing the
accounting unit.
Article 35. Contents of accounting inspection
1. Contents of accounting inspection include:
a) Inspect the implementation of accounting work contents;
b) Inspect the organization of the accounting apparatus and accountants;
c) Inspect the organization, management and business activities of accounting services;
d) Check the observance of other provisions of the law on accounting.
2. Accounting inspection contents must be specified in the inspection decision, except
the case specified at Point b, Clause 3, Article 34 of this Law.
Article 36. Accounting inspection time
The accounting inspection time is decided by the competent accounting inspection agency
but not exceeding 10 days, excluding weekends and public holidays as prescribed by the Ministry
labor law. In case the test content is complicated, it takes time to type
prices, comparisons, conclusions, accounting inspection authorities may prolong the time
test time; the duration for each inspection shall not exceed 5 days,
excluding weekends and holidays as prescribed by the Labor Code.

Page 18

20

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

Article 37. Rights and responsibilities of the accounting inspection team
1. When inspecting accounting, the accounting inspection team must announce the audit decision
accounting inspection, except for inspection, examination and audit teams specified at Point b, Clause 3
Article 34 of this Law. The accounting inspection team has the right to request the accounting unit to
inspected to provide accounting documents related to the audited accounting content
and explain when necessary.
2. At the end of the accounting inspection, the accounting inspection team must make an audit record
accounting inspection and assigning one copy to the inspected accounting unit; if virus is detected
If they violate the accounting law, they shall handle them according to their competence or transfer the dossiers to the competent authorities
competent state agencies to handle according to the provisions of law.
3. The head of the accounting inspection team must take responsibility for the inspection conclusions.
4. The accounting inspection team must comply with the order, content, scope and time
inspection, must not affect the normal operation of the next unit
and must not harass the audited accounting unit.
Article 38. Rights and responsibilities of accounting units subject to accounting inspection
1. The accounting unit subject to accounting inspection has the following responsibilities:
a) Provide the accounting inspection team with accounting documents related to the internal
inspection contents and explanation of contents at the request of the inspection team;
b) Implement the conclusions of the accounting inspection team.
2. An accounting unit subject to accounting inspection has the following rights:
a) Refuse the inspection if it is found that the inspection is not within the prescribed competence;
specified in Clauses 2 and 3 of Article 34 or the inspection contents are not in accordance with regulations
prescribed in Article 35 of this Law;
b) Complaints to competent state agencies in case of failure to
Agree with the conclusions of the accounting inspection team.
Article 39. Internal control and internal audit
1. Internal control is the establishment and organization of implementation within the entity
accounting for internal mechanisms, policies, processes and regulations in accordance with regulations
of the law to ensure timely prevention, detection and handling of risks and achieve
be requested.
2. The accounting unit must establish an internal control system within the unit to ensure
meet the following requirements:
a) The assets of the unit are guaranteed to be safe, avoiding misuse, not
effective;
b) The transactions are approved by authority and fully recorded
basis for the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.

Page 19

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

21

3. Internal audit is the examination, assessment and supervision of the adequacy and appropriateness
and the effectiveness of internal control.
4. Internal audit has the following tasks:
a) Check the suitability, effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control system;
b) Check and confirm the quality and reliability of economic and financial information
of financial statements, management accounting reports before submitting for approval;
c) Checking compliance with operating principles, management, and legal compliance
laws, financial and accounting regimes, policies, resolutions and decisions of the unit leader
accountant;
d) Detect loopholes, weaknesses, frauds in the management and protection of assets of the Company
unit; Proposing solutions to improve and perfect the management and operating system
operations of the accounting unit.
5. The Government shall detail the internal audit in enterprises and institutions
state agencies, non-business units.
Section 5
ASSETS CHECKLIST, STORAGE AND STORAGE OF ACCOUNTING DOCUMENTS
Article 40. Asset inventory
1. Asset inventory means weighing, measuring, measuring and counting quantities; confirm and evaluate
quality, value of assets, available capital at the time of inventory for inspection,
compared with the figures in the accounting books.
2. The accounting unit must make an inventory of assets in the following cases:
a) At the end of the annual accounting period;
b) The accounting unit is divided, separated, consolidated, merged, dissolved, terminated,
bankruptcy or sale or lease;
c) The accounting unit may change its ownership type or form;
d) Fire, flood and other unusual damage occurs;
dd) Re-assess the property under a decision of a competent state agency;
e) Other cases as prescribed by law.
3. After taking inventory of assets, the accounting unit must make a report on the results
inventory. In case there is a difference between the actual inventory data and the above data
accounting books, the accounting unit must determine the cause and must reflect the difference
difference, the results are handled in the accounting books before making financial statements.
4. The inventory must accurately reflect the reality of assets and the source of asset formation.
The person who prepares and signs the report summarizing the inventory results must be responsible for the results
inventory results.

Page 20

22

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

Article 41. Preservation and archival of accounting documents
1. Accounting documents must be fully and safely preserved by the accounting unit
use and storage.
2. In case accounting documents are temporarily seized or confiscated, a written record must be attached
according to the photocopy of that accounting document; if accounting documents are lost or destroyed
there must be a record enclosed with a photocopy of the document or a certification.
3. Accounting documents must be archived within 12 months from the date of closing
the end of the annual accounting period or the end of the accounting work.
4. The legal representative of the accounting unit is responsible for the organization
Preservation and storage of accounting documents.
5. Accounting documents must be archived according to the following deadlines:
a) At least 05 years for accounting documents used for management and administration of the company;
accounting units, including accounting vouchers not directly used to record accounting books
and prepare financial statements;
b) At least 10 years for accounting vouchers used directly to record in accounting books
accounting and preparation of financial statements, accounting books and annual financial statements, except for
otherwise provided by law;
c) Permanent storage of historical and important accounting documents
economic, security and national defense.
6. The Government shall specify each type of accounting document to be archived and the time limit
storage, the time for calculating the storage term specified in Clause 5 of this Article, the place of storage
and procedures for destruction of archived accounting documents.
Article 42. Responsibilities of accounting units in case of accounting documents
lost or destroyed
When detecting lost or damaged accounting documents, the accounting unit must
Immediately perform the following tasks:
1. Examine, determine and make a record on the quantity, current status and causes of resources
whether the accounting is lost or destroyed; notify relevant organizations and individuals
and competent state agencies;
2. Organize the restoration of damaged accounting documents;
3. Contact organizations and individuals that have transactions in accounting documents and data for information
copy or re-certify lost or damaged accounting documents;
4. For accounting documents related to assets that cannot be recovered
by the measures specified in Clauses 2 and 3 of this Article, they must inventory their accounts
assets to re-establish lost or damaged accounting records.

Page 21

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

23

Section 6
ACCOUNTING WORK IN CASE OF ACCOUNTING UNIT
Dividing, Splitting, Merging, Merging, TRANSFORMING OR
FORM OF OWNERSHIP, DISSOLUTION, TERMINATION OF OPERATIONS, BANKLE
Article 43. Accounting work in case of division of accounting units
1. The accounting unit that is divided into new accounting units must perform the following tasks:
the following:
a) Closing accounting books, inventorying assets, determining unpaid debts, making reports
finance;
b) Distributing assets and unpaid debts, making handover minutes and keeping accounting records
according to the handover minutes;
c) Hand over accounting documents related to unpaid assets and liabilities to the
new accounting unit.
2. New accounting units are established based on the minutes of handover and opening of accounting books
and make accounting entries in accordance with this Law.
Article 44. Accounting work in case of separation of accounting units
1. An accounting unit that is separated from a part to establish a new accounting unit must
perform the following tasks:
a) Inventory of assets, determination of unpaid debts of the division to be separated;
b) Hand over assets and unpaid debts of the division to be separated, make a record
hand over and record the accounting books according to the handover minutes;
c) Hand over accounting documents related to unpaid assets and liabilities to the applicant
new accountant; for accounting documents that are not handed over, the accounting unit is separated
archived according to the provisions of Article 41 of this Law.
2. New accounting units are established based on the minutes of handover and opening of accounting books
and make accounting entries in accordance with this Law.
Article 45. Accounting work in case of consolidation of accounting units
1. When accounting units are consolidated into a new accounting unit, each accounting unit will
The consolidated accountant must perform the following tasks:
a) Closing accounting books, inventorying assets, determining unpaid debts, making reports
finance;
b) Hand over all assets and unpaid debts, make a handover record and record
accounting books according to the handover minutes;
c) Hand over all accounting documents to the consolidated accounting unit.

Page 22

24

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

2. The consolidated accounting unit must perform the following tasks:
a) Based on the handover record, open accounting books and record accounting books according to regulations
provisions of this Law;
b) Consolidate the financial statements of the accounting units that are consolidated into one
financial statements of the consolidated accounting unit;
c) Receive and store accounting documents of the consolidated units.
Article 46. Accounting work in case of merger of accounting units vị
1. The accounting unit that is merged into another accounting unit must perform the following tasks:
the following:
a) Closing accounting books, inventorying assets, determining unpaid debts, making reports
finance;
b) Hand over all assets and unpaid debts, make a handover record and record
accounting books according to the handover minutes;
c) Hand over all accounting documents to the merging accounting unit.
2. The accounting unit that receives the merger shall record the accounting books according to the handover minutes
in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
Article 47. Accounting work in case of type conversion or
ownership
1. The accounting unit that is converted into the type or form of ownership must do so
perform the following tasks:
a) Closing accounting books, inventorying assets, determining unpaid debts, making reports
finance;
b) Hand over all assets and unpaid debts, make a handover record and record
accounting books according to the handover minutes;
c) Hand over all accounting documents to the accounting unit after the conversion.
2. The converted accounting unit shall open accounting books according to the handover minutes
and make accounting books according to the provisions of this Law.
Article 48. Accounting work in case of dissolution, termination of operation,
bankrupt
1. The accounting unit that is dissolved or terminated must perform the following tasks:
the following:
a) Closing accounting books, inventorying assets, determining unpaid debts, making reports
finance;
b) Open accounting books to monitor economic and financial operations related to the
dissolution, termination of operation;

Page 23

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

25

c) Hand over all accounting documents of the dissolved or terminated accounting unit
terminate operations after processing for superior accounting units or organizations or individuals
archived according to the provisions of Article 41 of this Law.
2. In case an accounting unit is declared bankrupt, the court shall declare bankruptcy
appoint the person to perform the accounting work specified in Clause 1 of this Article.
Chapter III
ORGANIZATION OF ACCOUNTING MACHINERY AND ACCOUNTANTS
Article 49. Organization of the accounting apparatus
1. The accounting unit must organize the accounting apparatus, arrange accountants or
hire accounting services.
2. The organization of the apparatus, arrangement of accountants, chief accountants, in charge of accounting
accounting or hiring services to act as accountants, chief accountants shall comply with the provisions of this Law
Goverment.
Article 50. Responsibilities of the legal representative of the accounting unit
1. Organize the accounting apparatus, arrange accountants or decide to hire
accounting service business, accounting service business household in accordance with
provisions of this Law.
2. Appointing a chief accountant or deciding to hire accounting services
head in accordance with this Law; cases where specialized law has provisions
Other regulations shall comply with the provisions of specialized laws.
3. Organize and direct the accounting work in the accounting unit according to regulations
provisions of the law on accounting and take direct responsibility for the consequences of these
mistakes made by themselves; jointly responsible for the violations caused by
caused by others but under their own management responsibility.

4. Organize accounting inspection within the unit and carry out accounting inspection
subordinate units.
Article 51. Standards, rights and responsibilities of accountants
1. Accountants must have the following criteria:
a) Having professional ethical qualities, honesty, integrity, a sense of acceptance
law enforcement;
b) Having professional qualifications in accounting.
2. Accountants have the right to be independent in professional accounting.
3. Accountants are responsible for complying with the provisions of the law on accounting
accountant, perform assigned tasks and be responsible for
their profession. When changing the accountant, the former accountant

Page 24

26

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

be responsible for handing over the accounting work and accounting documents to the accountant
new math. The former accountant must be responsible for the accounting work in the
My time as an accountant.
Article 52. Persons not allowed to work as accountants
1. Minors; a person who has been declared limited or incapacitated by the Court
civil actions; the person who is subject to the measure of consignment to an educational institution
compulsory, compulsory detoxification establishments.
2. Persons who are banned from practicing accounting according to court judgments or decisions
the judgment has taken legal effect; the person is being examined for penal liability; people
is serving a prison sentence or has been convicted of one of the offenses of trespassing
order of economic management, crimes related to finance and accounting positions
criminal record has not been cleared.
3. Natural father, natural mother, adoptive father, adoptive mother, wife, husband, biological child, adopted child, brother, sister, brother
intestines of the legal representative, the head, the director, the general
director and deputy director of the head, deputy director, deputy general director
in charge of finance - accounting, chief accountant in the same accounting unit
accounting, except for a sole proprietorship, a limited liability company run by an individual
owners and other cases prescribed by the Government.
4. The person who is currently the manager, operator, storekeeper, cashier, buyer, seller
assets in the same accounting unit, except in a sole proprietorship, company
limited liability owned by an individual and other cases due to
Government regulations.
Article 53. Chief accountant
1. Chief accountant is the head of the accounting apparatus of the unit with the task of organizing
perform accounting work in an accounting unit.
2. Chief accountants of state agencies, organizations and non-business units used
State budget and enterprises in which more than 50% of charter capital is held by the State
In addition to the tasks specified in Clause 1 of this Article, it also has the duty to help the representative
legal representation of the financial supervision accounting unit at the accounting unit.
3. The chief accountant is under the leadership of the legal representative of the application
accountant; in case there is a superior accounting unit, they are concurrently subject to the direction and
professional and professional inspection by chief accountants of superior accounting units.
4. In case the accounting unit appoints a person in charge of accounting to replace the chief accountant
then the person in charge of accounting must meet the criteria and conditions specified in Clause 1
Article 54 of this Law and must perform the responsibilities and rights prescribed for accountants
head specified in Article 55 of this Law.

Page 25

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

27

Article 54. Criteria and conditions for chief accountants
1. A chief accountant must have the following criteria and conditions:
a) The standards specified in Clause 1, Article 51 of this Law;
b) Having professional knowledge in accounting from intermediate level or higher;
c) Having a certificate of training for chief accountant;
d) Having actually worked in accounting for at least 02 years, for people with
accounting expertise from university or higher and working time
accounting practice for at least 3 years, for persons with accounting expertise and experience
mathematics at the intermediate and college level.
2. The Government shall specify the standards and conditions for chief accountants in accordance with regulations
suitable for each type of accounting unit.
Article 55. Responsibilities and rights of chief accountants
1. Chief accountants have the following responsibilities:
a) Comply with the provisions of the law on accounting and finance in the accounting unit;
b) Organize and administer the accounting apparatus according to the provisions of this Law;
c) Prepare financial statements in compliance with the accounting regime and accounting standards.
2. The chief accountant has the right to be independent in professional accounting.
3. Chief accountants used by state agencies, organizations and non-business units
State budget and enterprises in which more than 50% of charter capital is held by the State,
In addition to the rights specified in Clause 2 of this Article, they also have the following rights:
a) Giving written opinions to the legal representative of the accounting unit
on recruitment, transfer, salary increase, reward and discipline of successors
accountant, storekeeper, treasurer;
b) Request relevant departments in the accounting unit to provide adequate and timely information
documents related to the accounting work and financial supervision of the chief accountant;
c) To reserve professional opinions in writing when there are opinions different from those of
decision makers;
d) Report in writing to the legal representative of the accounting unit
when detecting violations of the law on finance and accounting in the unit; school
In case they still have to comply with the decision, they shall report to the immediate superior of the person who made the decision
decision-making or state authority and is not responsible
responsibility for the consequences of the execution of that decision.
Article 56. Hiring accounting services, chief accountant services
1. An accounting unit may sign a contract with an accounting service enterprise
accountants or accounting service households to hire accounting or accounting services
to act as chief accountant in accordance with the law.

Page 26

28

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

2. The hiring of accounting services or chief accountant services must be established
written contract as prescribed by law.
3. An accounting unit that hires accounting services or chief accountant services may
responsibility to provide fully, timely and truthfully all relevant information and documents
to the job of hiring an accountant, hiring a chief accountant and paying in full and on time
accounting service fee as agreed in the contract.
4. Persons hired to work as chief accountants must fully meet the criteria and conditions specified in Clause 1 of this Article
prescribed in Article 54 of this Law.
5. Enterprises, households providing accounting services and persons hired as accountants
accountants, working as chief accountants must be responsible for accounting information and data according to
agreement in the contract.
Chapter IV
ACCOUNTING SERVICE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Article 57. Accountant certificate
1. A person who is granted an accountant certificate must have the following criteria:
a) Having professional ethical qualities, honesty, integrity, and a sense of compliance
law;
b) Having a university degree or higher in finance, accounting,
auditing or other majors as prescribed by the Ministry of Finance;
c) Pass the exam for the accountant's certificate.
2. Persons who hold an accounting expert certificate or an accounting certificate issued by an organization
a foreign or international organization in charge of accounting, which is recognized by the Ministry of Finance of Vietnam
receive and pass the test on Vietnamese economic, financial and accounting law and have
If the criteria specified at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article are met, an accountant's certificate shall be granted.
3. The Ministry of Finance shall prescribe conditions for the examination to obtain an accountant's certificate and procedures for granting it
and revoke the accountant's certificate.
Article 58. Registration to practice accounting services
1. Holders of accountant certificates or auditor certificates according to regulations
The provisions of the Law on Independent Auditing may register to practice accounting services through:
accounting service business or accounting service business household when
meet the following conditions:
a) Having civil act capacity;
b) Having actually worked in finance, accounting or auditing for 36 months or more
up from the time of university graduation;
c) Fully participate in the knowledge update program as prescribed.

Page 27

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

29

2. Persons who fully meet the conditions specified in Clause 1 of this Article shall register
practice and be granted a certificate of registration to practice accounting services. The set
Finance regulates procedures for granting and revoking practice registration certificates
accounting services.
3. The accounting service practice registration certificate is only valid when the person
issued with a full-time employment contract for a business enterprise
accounting services or working at a household providing accounting services.
4. Persons who are not registered to practice accounting services include:
a) Cadres, civil servants and public employees; officers, professional soldiers, workers,
defense officers, People's Public Security;
b) Persons who are banned from practicing accounting according to court judgments or decisions
has taken legal effect; the person is being examined for penal liability; who has been
convicted of one of the crimes of infringing upon the economic management order related to finance,
accountants who have not yet been cleared of criminal records; the person who is being subject to administrative handling measures
primary education in communes, wards and townships, put into compulsory education institutions, educational institutions
compulsive addiction;
c) Persons who have been convicted of serious crimes of infringing upon the order of business management;
economic status that has not yet been expunged;
d) Persons who are administratively sanctioned for violations of the law on finance,
accounting or auditing time limit has not yet expired 6 months from the date of complete execution of the decision
decision to sanction in case of being subject to a warning or the time limit of 01 year has not expired, counting from
from the date of completion of other administrative sanctioning decisions;
d) Persons suspended from practicing accounting services.
Article 59. Enterprises providing accounting services
1. Enterprises providing accounting services are established according to different types
The following:
a) Limited liability company with two or more members;
b) Partnership company;
c) Private enterprise.
2. An enterprise may only provide accounting services when it meets the following conditions:
business conditions in accordance with this Law and be granted a Certificate of eligibility
business of accounting services.
3. Enterprises providing accounting services are not allowed to contribute capital for establishment
enterprises providing other accounting services, except for the case of capital contribution with other enterprises
foreign accounting service business to establish a business enterprise
accounting services in Vietnam.

Page 28

30

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

4. Foreign accounting service enterprises conduct business
accounting services in Vietnam in the following forms:
a) Contributing capital with an established accounting service business and
operating in Vietnam to establish an accounting service business;
b) Establishing a branch of a foreign accounting service enterprise;
c) Providing cross-border services according to the Government's regulations.
Article 60. Conditions for issuance of the Certificate of eligibility for service business
accountant
1. A limited liability company with two or more members is granted a Certificate
fully meet the conditions for providing accounting services when fully meeting the following conditions:
a) Having an enterprise registration certificate or an initial registration certificate
investment documents or other papers of equivalent value as prescribed by law;
b) There are at least two capital contributors who are practicing accountants;
c) Legal representative, director or general director of the company
limited liability must be a practicing accountant;
d) Ensure the proportion of capital contributed by accountants practicing in the enterprise, the ratio
contributed capital of members being organizations in accordance with the Government's regulations.
2. The partnership company is granted a Certificate of eligibility for translation business
accounting services when the following conditions are satisfied:
a) Having an enterprise registration certificate or an initial registration certificate
investment documents or other papers of equivalent value as prescribed by law;
b) There are at least two general partners who are practicing accountants;
c) Legal representative, director or general director of the company
The partnership must be a practicing accountant.
3. A private enterprise is granted a Certificate of Business Eligibility
accounting services when fully meeting the following conditions:
a) Having an enterprise registration certificate or an initial registration certificate
investment documents or other papers of equivalent value as prescribed by law;
b) There are at least two practicing accountants;
c) The owner of a private enterprise is a practicing accountant and concurrently a director.
4. Branches of foreign accounting services enterprises in Vietnam
be granted a Certificate of eligibility to provide accounting services when having all the necessary qualifications
the following conditions:
a) Foreign accounting service enterprises are allowed to provide
accounting services in accordance with the law of the country where the enterprise does business
foreign accounting services located the head office;

Page 29

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

thirty first

b) There are at least two practicing accountants, including the director or general director
branch manager;
c) The director or general director of the branch of the service enterprise
Foreign accountants may not concurrently hold the position of business manager or executive officer
other industries in Vietnam;
d) Foreign accounting service enterprises must send a written notice to
The Ministry of Finance guarantees to be responsible for all obligations and commitments of the branch
in Viet Nam.
5. Within 06 months from the date of registration of accounting service business,
accounting service business, branch of service business
Foreign accounting services in Vietnam are not granted a Certificate of Eligibility
business of accounting services or in the case of a Certificate of Eligibility
If the business of accounting services has been withdrawn, the enterprise or enterprise branch shall
providing foreign accounting services in Vietnam must immediately notify the
business registration agency to carry out procedures to delete the phrase "accounting services" in the name
Call of business, branch.
Article 61. Dossier of application for the Certificate of eligibility for translation business
accounting service
1. An application form for the Certificate of eligibility for business in accounting services.
2. Copy of Certificate of Business Registration, Certificate of Registration
investment or other papers of equivalent value.
3. Copies of accounting service practice registration certificates of accountants
practicing accountant.
4. Labor contracts with accounting service enterprises of accountants
practicing accountant.
5. Documents proving the capital contribution for limited liability companies.
6. The company charter, for partnerships and limited liability companies.
7. Foreign enterprise's written commitment to responsibility, papers
Certificate of license to provide accounting services of foreign enterprises
for branches of foreign accounting services enterprises in Vietnam.
Article 62. Time limit for issuance of Certificate of eligibility for service business
accountant
1. Within 15 days from the date of receipt of complete and valid dossiers, the Ministry of Finance shall issue
Certificate of eligibility for business in accounting services for enterprises;
in case of refusal, it must reply in writing and clearly state the reasons therefor.

Page 30

32

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

2. In case it is necessary to clarify issues related to the application for a Certificate
When receiving the conditions for providing accounting services, the Ministry of Finance requires enterprises to
application for the Certificate of eligibility for business in accounting services.
The time limit for issuance of the Certificate of eligibility to provide accounting services is calculated from
date of receipt of additional explanatory documents.
Article 63. Re-issuance of the Certificate of eligibility for business in accounting services
1. The certificate of eligibility for accounting service business is re-issued in
the following cases:
a) There is a change in name, legal representative, director or general director
Director and address of the head office of the enterprise, branch of the business enterprise
foreign accounting services in Vietnam;
b) The certificate of eligibility to provide accounting services is lost or stolen
damaged.
2. Dossier of application for re-grant of the Certificate of eligibility for accounting service business
math includes:
a) An application form for re-issuance of the Certificate of eligibility for business in accounting services;
b) The original certificate of eligibility for accounting service business, which has been approved by the Ministry of Finance
granted, except for the case specified at Point b, Clause 1 of this Article;
c) Other documents related to the application for re-issuance of the Certificate of Eligibility
business case of accounting services (if any).
3. Within 15 days from the date of receipt of complete and valid dossiers, the Ministry of Finance shall issue
return the Certificate of eligibility to provide accounting services for enterprises;
in case of refusal, it must reply in writing and clearly state the reasons therefor.
Article 64. Fee for issuance and re-issuance of Certificate of eligibility for translation business
accounting service
Enterprises providing accounting services are granted or re-granted certificates
If they meet the conditions for providing accounting services, they must pay fees as prescribed by law.
Article 65. Households providing accounting services kế
1. Business households are allowed to provide accounting services when meeting the following conditions:
the following case:
a) Having a business household registration certificate;
b) Individuals or representatives of groups of individuals establishing business households must be accountants
practicing member.
2. Accounting service business households do not need a Certificate of eligibility
business accounting services.

Page 31

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

33

Article 66. Changes to be notified to the Ministry of Finance
1. Within 10 days from the date of change in one of the contents
the following, accounting service enterprises must notify in writing
to the Ministry of Finance:
a) List of accountants practicing at the enterprise;
b) Failing to guarantee one, several or all of the service business conditions
accounting specified in Article 60 of this Law;
c) Name and address of the head office of the enterprise;
d) Director or general director, legal representative, percentage of contributed capital
of members;
dd) Suspend the business of accounting services;
e) Establishing, terminating operations or changing the name and address of the branch office
business accounting services;
g) Perform the division, separation, merger, consolidation, transformation, dissolution.
2. Within 10 days from the date of change in one of the following contents
Here, the accounting service business household must notify in writing the Ministry of Finance:
a) List of practicing accountants;
b) Name and address of the business household;
c) Suspend or terminate the business of accounting services.
Article 67. Responsibilities of practicing accountants and business enterprises
accounting services, business households accounting services
1. Perform accounting work related to the content of accounting services that are satisfied
agreement in the contract.
2. Comply with accounting laws and professional ethical standards.
3. Be responsible before customers and before the law for service content
provided by the accountant and must compensate for the damage caused by them.
4. Regularly cultivate professional knowledge and experience, implement
annual knowledge update program according to regulations of the Ministry of Finance.
5. Comply with the professional management and quality control of accounting services of
Ministry of Finance or a professional accounting organization authorized by the Ministry of Finance.
6. Buy professional liability insurance according to the Government's regulations.
Article 68. Cases where accounting services are not provided
Accounting service business, accounting service business household
not to provide accounting services to other accounting units when the responsible person
Responsible for managing and operating an accounting service business, a representative
accounting service business households or persons directly providing accounting services of
enterprises or households providing accounting services in the following cases:

Page 32

34

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

1. Being a biological father, natural mother, adoptive father, adoptive mother, wife, husband, biological child, adopted child, brother, sister,
younger brother of the person responsible for management, administration and chief accountant of the unit
accounting, except where the accounting unit is a private enterprise or a liability company
limited liability owned by an individual and other cases owned by the Government
government regulation.
2. Having economic and financial relations with that accounting unit.
3. Incompetent professional or ineligible to perform translation
accounting service.
4. Currently providing services as chief accountant for clients who are organizations with
economic and financial relationship with that accounting unit.
5. The accounting unit requests to perform work that is not in accordance with the standards
standards of professional ethics or not in accordance with professional and professional requirements
financial accountant.
6. Other cases as prescribed by law.
Article 69. Suspension of business of accounting services and revocation of Certificates
Satisfy all conditions for providing accounting services, Certificate of practice registration
accounting services profession
1. Enterprises providing accounting services are suspended from providing accounting services
in one of the following cases:
a) Failing to satisfy one, several or all of the conditions specified in Article 60
of this Law for 3 consecutive months;
b) There are professional mistakes or violations of accounting standards or standards
accounting professional ethics that has serious or potentially realistic consequences
Causing serious consequences.
2. Enterprises providing accounting services have their Certificate of Satisfaction revoked
conditions for providing accounting services in one of the following cases:
a) Making false or fraudulent declarations, falsifying documents to qualify
issue the Certificate of eligibility to provide accounting services;
b) Failing to provide accounting services for 12 consecutive months;
c) Failure to remedy violations or violations specified in Clause 1
This within 60 days from the date of suspension;
d) Being dissolved, bankrupt or self-terminating the accounting service business;
dd) The Certificate of Business Registration, Certificate of Business Registration is revoked
investment signature or other papers of equivalent value;
e) Falsifying or colluding, linking to falsify accounting documents, reports;
financial statements and provide false information and data;

Page 33

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

35

g) Forging, erasing or modifying the Certificate of eligibility for translation business
accounting service.
3. The enterprise providing accounting services has its Certificate of Satisfaction revoked
conditions for providing accounting services must terminate the business of accounting services
payment, from the effective date of the withdrawal decision.
4. Accounting service business households are suspended from providing accounting services when there is
professional violations or violations of accounting standards, ethical standards
accounting profession that causes serious consequences or is likely to actually cause consequences
serious results.
5. The accounting service business household must terminate the accounting service business
in one of the following cases:
a) Failing to provide accounting services for 12 consecutive months;
b) Failure to remedy the violations or violations specified in Clause 4
This within 60 days from the date of suspension;
c) Self-termination of business in accounting services;
d) Falsifying or colluding, linking to falsify accounting documents, reports;
financial statements and provide false information and data;
dd) The certificate of business household registration is revoked;
e) All accountants practicing in the same business household have their Certificates revoked
Certificate of registration to practice accounting services.
6. Practicing accountants are suspended from practicing accounting services in the following cases:
the following cases:
a) There are professional mistakes or violations of accounting standards or standards
accounting professional ethics that has serious or potentially realistic consequences
Causing serious consequences;
b) No longer meet the conditions for practicing registration;
c) Failure to comply with regulations of competent authorities on inspection,
inspection related to accounting practice activities;
d) Failing to perform the responsibilities specified in Article 67 of this Law.
7. Practicing accountants having their translation practice registration certificates revoked
accounting services in the following cases:
a) Fraudulent or forged documents to qualify for the issuance of the Certificate of Passenger Registration
accounting service profession;
b) The accountant's certificate is revoked;
c) Being convicted of a crime by a legally effective court judgment.

Page 34

36

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

Article 70. Professional organizations in accounting
1. Professional accounting organizations established and operating under the provisions of
the law on associations and is responsible for complying with the provisions of the law on accounting.
2. Professional organizations in accounting are trained and updated their knowledge
accountants, accountants practice and perform a number of related duties
to the accounting activities prescribed by the Government.
Chapter V
STATE MANAGEMENT OF ACCOUNTING
Article 71. State management of accounting
1. The Government performs the unified state management of accounting.
2. The Ministry of Finance is responsible to the Government for performing state management
in accounting, has the following duties and powers:
a) Formulate and submit to the Government for decision accounting development strategies and policies;
b) Formulate and submit to the Government for promulgation or promulgate according to its competence documents;
legal documents on accounting;
c) Issuance, re-issuance and revocation of the Certificate of registration of accounting service practice and
Certificate of eligibility for business in accounting services; suspension of translation practice
accounting services and suspending the business of accounting services.
d) Regulations on examination, granting, revocation and management of accountant certificates;
d) Auditing of accounting; checking accounting service activities; compliance monitoring
accounting standards and accounting regimes;
e) Regulations on updating knowledge for practicing accountants;
g) Organize and manage scientific research on accounting and application
information technology in accounting activities;
h) Inspect, examine, settle complaints and denunciations and handle violations of the law
on accounting;
i) International cooperation in accounting.
3. Ministries and ministerial-level agencies, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, have
responsible for coordinating with the Ministry of Finance in performing the state management of accounting
in the industry or field assigned to be in charge.
4. Provincial-level People's Committees, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, have
responsible for the state management of accounting in the locality.

Page 35

ANNOUNCEMENT/No. 1241 + 1242/December 28, 2015

37

Chapter VI
TERMS ENFORCEMENT
Article 72. Effect
1. This Law takes effect from January 1, 2017.
2. Law on Accounting No. 03/2003/QH11 ceases to be effective from the effective date of this Law
enforce.
Article 73. Transitional provisions
1. The government prepares the necessary conditions to start the preparation of financial statements
government as prescribed in Article 30 of this Law within 24 months from the date of
from the date of entry into force of this Law.
2. Within 24 months from the effective date of this Law, enterprises
accounting service business established before the effective date of this Law must ensure
satisfy the conditions prescribed by this Law in order to be granted a Certificate of Satisfaction
conditions for business in accounting services; if the conditions under the provisions of . are not met
Under this Law, the accounting service business must be terminated.
3. Accounting practice certificates granted to Vietnamese citizens and foreigners
According to the Law on Accounting No. 03/2003/QH11, it is valid as an accountant's certificate
provided for in this Law.
Article 74. Detailed regulations
1. The Government and the Ministry of Finance are responsible for detailing the articles and
assigned in Law.
2. Based on the basic principles of this Law, the Government shall specify:
Contents of accounting work for representative offices of foreign enterprises
operating in Vietnam, business households and cooperative groups.
This Law has been approved by the 13th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
The 10th meeting was approved on November 20, 2015.
PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Nguyen Sinh Hung

