Page 1

Simplified | Traditional | English

Official mailbox

7⽉26⽇ Week in 2021

State Council news

Topic

policy

service

Ask for politics
data

National conditions

Home> Policies> Laws and Regulations> Laws

Amendments to the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China (9) (Chairman's Order No. 30)
Central government portal www.gov.cn 2015-08-30 07:42 Source: Xinhua News Agency
【Font: Big Middle Small】print this page

Chinese government
a

share

Order of the President of the People's Republic of China
Di San ⼗ No.
"The Criminal Law Amendment of the People's Republic of China (9)" has passed the sixth meeting of the Standing Committee of the People's Republic of China
The proposal was passed on August 29th, 2015 and is hereby announced and will be implemented from November 1st, 2015.
Xi Jinping, President of the People's Republic of China

2015 8⽉29⽇

The Criminal Law Amendment of the People's Republic of China (9)
(Adopted at the 8th and 6th meeting of the Standing Committee of the 8th and 2nd National People’s Congress on August 29, 2015)
1. After Article 3-7 of the Criminal Law, an article is added as one of Article 3-7: "The use of occupation to facilitate the commission of a crime, or the violation of professional requirements
If a crime with a specific obligation is sentenced to a penalty, the people’s court may, based on the circumstances of the crime and the need to prevent re-offending, forbid the penalty until the execution of the penalty is completed or
The person engaged in related occupations from the date of parole, for a period of three to five years.
"Anyone who is prohibited from engaging in related occupations violates the decision made by the People's Court in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be punished by the public security organ in accordance with the law; if the circumstances are serious,
Convict and punished in accordance with Article 303 of this Law.
"If there are other laws and regulations that prohibit or restrict the employment of relevant occupations, those provisions shall prevail."
Ii. Amend Article 5(1) of the Criminal Law to read: "For those sentenced to a suspended death sentence, if there is no intentional crime during the suspended period of death sentence, the term
After the expiration, it will be reduced to a fixed-term imprisonment; if there is indeed a serious performance, after the expiration of the two-year term, it will be reduced to a five-year imprisonment; if the crime is deliberately committed, the circumstances are evil
If the case is inferior, the death penalty shall be executed after the approval of the highest civil court; if the death penalty is not executed for an intentional crime, the period of death penalty suspension shall be recalculated and the highest shall be reported.
Recorded in the People's Court. "
3. Amend Article 5.3 of the Criminal Law to read: "The penalty shall be paid once or in installments within the time limit specified in the judgment. If the payment is not made within the time limit, the payment shall be compulsory.
If it is not possible to pay all the fines, the people's court shall at any time discover that the enforced person has property that can be enforced, and it shall recover it at any time.
"If it is really difficult to pay due to irresistible disasters, etc., the civil court can postpone the payment, reduce it or waive it as appropriate."
4. In Article 6-9 of the Criminal Law, one paragraph is added as the second paragraph: "If there are several crimes sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment and criminal detention, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment. There are several crimes sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment and criminal detention.
Those who are sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment and control, or criminal detention and control, must still be enforced after the fixed-term imprisonment or criminal detention is completed. "
The original paragraph 2 serves as the third paragraph.
5. Amend Article 1 of the Criminal Law to read: "Those who organize or lead terrorist organizations shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than ten years or unlimited imprisonment, and confiscated
Property; those who actively participate will be sentenced to more than three years’ imprisonment but not more than a year, and be punished; others who participate will be sentenced to not more than three years of fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention, surveillance, or
Those who deprive political rights may also be punished.
"Anyone who commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding paragraph and commits homicide, explosion, kidnapping, etc., shall be punished in accordance with the provisions on the combined punishment of multiple crimes."
6. Amend one of the 100th Articles of the Criminal Law to read: "Funding terrorist organizations, individuals who carry out terrorist activities, or financing terrorist training
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than five years, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights, and be punished; if the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than five years and be punished.
Or confiscated property.
"Whoever recruits or transports personnel for terrorist activities, organizes, conducts terrorist activities, or trains terrorist activities, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"Where a unit commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding two paragraphs, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph.
Penalty. "
7. Five articles are added after the first 100th article of the Criminal Law, as the first 100th article, the first 100th article third, and the first 100th article fourth.
Article 5 of the first 100, Article 6 of the first 100:
"Article 1 of the Hundred One under one of the following circumstances shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than five years, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights, and be punished; the circumstances
In serious cases, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than five years, and shall be punished or confiscated:
"(1) Preparing murder weapons, dangerous goods or other tools for the implementation of terrorist activities;

"(⼆) Organizing terrorist activity training or actively participating in terrorist activity training;
"(3) Liaison with overseas terrorist organizations or personnel for the purpose of carrying out terrorist activities;
"(4) Planning or other preparations for the implementation of terrorist activities. "If the actions in the preceding paragraph are involved and other crimes are constituted at the same time, the punishment shall be more severe
Conviction and punishment.
"Article No. 3 is to produce and distribute books, audio and video materials or other items that promote terrorism and extremism, or through lectures
Those who promote terrorism, extremism, or instigate terrorist activities by granting or publishing information shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than five years, criminal detention, surveillance, or
Those who deprive them of political rights and punish them; if the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than five years, and they shall be punished or confiscated.
"The fourth one of the 100th article uses extremism to instigate and coerce the masses into the implementation of marriage, judicial, education, and social management systems that are confirmed by national laws
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years but not more than seven years and be punished;
If the festival is particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to more than seven years’ imprisonment and be punished or confiscated their property.
"The fifth article of the first 100 uses violence, coercion, etc. to force others to wear, wear clothing that promotes terrorism, extremism, and signs in public places
If the case is violated, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention or surveillance, and be punished.
"The sixth sixth article of the first 100 knows that books, audio and video materials, or other items that promote terrorism or extremism are not possessed by law, and the circumstances are serious.
If they are sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention or surveillance, they shall be punished concurrently or solely. "
1. Amend one of Article 133 and Article 3 of the Criminal Law to read: "Anyone who drives a motor vehicle on a road and has one of the following circumstances shall be sentenced to criminal detention and be punished:
"(1) Chasing and racing, the circumstances are bad;

"(⼆) Driving a motor vehicle while drunk;
"(3) Engaging in school bus business or passenger transportation, seriously exceeding the rated occupants for carrying passengers, or seriously exceeding the prescribed speed;
"(4) Transporting hazardous chemicals in violation of hazardous chemical safety management regulations, endangering public safety.
"Whoever the owner or management of a motor vehicle is directly responsible for the actions of the third and fourth items of the preceding paragraph shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"Where the actions of the preceding two paragraphs constitute other crimes at the same time, they shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of the heavier punishment."
9. Paragraph 1 of Article 155 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: "For private weapons, ammunition, nuclear materials or counterfeit currency, the sentence shall be fixed-term imprisonment of more than seven years.
Penalties or confiscation of property; where the circumstances are particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to unlimited imprisonment and confiscated property; where the circumstances are relatively minor, they shall be sentenced to more than three years but not more than seven years.
Term imprisonment and punishment. "
⼗. Amend Article 164, Paragraph 1 of the Criminal Law to read: "In order to seek illegitimate benefits, give employees of companies, enterprises or other units money
If the amount is relatively large, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention, and be punished; if the amount is huge, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than one year and be punished.
⾦. "
1. Amend Article One Hundred and Seven of the Criminal Law to read: "Those who counterfeit currency shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than one year and shall be punished; one of the following circumstances
If it is found, it shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than one year or unlimited imprisonment, and shall be punished or confiscated:
"(1) The essential division of the counterfeit currency group;

"(⼆) The amount of counterfeit currency is extremely large;
"(3) There are other particularly serious circumstances."
⼗, delete Article One Hundred and Nine of the Criminal Law.
3. Amend Article 183 and Article 7 of the Criminal Law to read: "Anyone who uses violence, coercion, or other methods to forcibly molest others or insult a woman shall be sentenced to not more than five years
Fixed-term imprisonment or criminal detention.
"Whoever gathers a crowd or commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding paragraph in public in public, or has other bad circumstances, shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than five years.
"Those who molest a child shall be punished severely in accordance with the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs."
4. The second paragraph of Article 193 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: "Committing the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, killing the kidnapped person, or intentionally hurting the kidnapped person, causing serious
Anyone who is injured or dies shall be sentenced to unlimited imprisonment or death, as well as confiscation of property. "
5. The sixth paragraph of Article 144 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: "Buy abducted women and children, do not abuse the bought children, and do not hinder
If they are rescued, they can be given a lighter punishment; if the buyer's wishes do not hinder her from returning to her original place of residence, she can be given a lighter or mitigated punishment. "
Sixth. A paragraph is added as the third paragraph to Article 204 of the Criminal Law as the third paragraph: "Implement the actions specified in paragraph 1 through the information network, and the victim shall refer to the Civil Law
The court told, but if it is really difficult to provide evidence, the people's court may request the public security organ to provide assistance. "
Seventh. Amend one of Article 185 and Article 3 of the Criminal Law to read: "Violation of relevant state regulations, selling to others or providing citizens’ personal information, the circumstances are serious
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention, concurrently or solely; if the circumstances are particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years but not more than seven years, and be punished
⾦.
"In violation of relevant state regulations, the personal information of citizens obtained in the course of performing duties or providing services is sold or provided to others, in accordance with the previous
The provisions of the paragraph are severely punished.
"Whoever steals or obtains citizens' personal information in other ways or illegally shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph.
"Where a unit commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding three paragraphs, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the persons in charge and other directly responsible persons who are directly responsible shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the respective paragraphs.
Penalty. "
◼. Amend the third paragraph of Article 206 of the Criminal Law to read: "The first crime is dealt with only if the person is told, but the victim has not been able to tell, or the victim has been forced to tell.
Except for those who cannot be told by law or intimidation. "
IX. An article is added after Article 206 of the Criminal Law as one of Article 206: "For minors, young people, sick people, disabled people, etc.
Persons with guardianship and nursing responsibilities who abuse the guardian or guardian, if the circumstances are bad, shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention.
"Where a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the person in charge and other persons directly responsible for it shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"Where the act of paragraph 1 constitutes another crime at the same time, it shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of the heavier punishment."
↼. Amend Article 206 of the Criminal Law, Article VII, Paragraph 1 to read: “Snatching public or private property, the amount of which is relatively large, or the seizure for multiple times, shall be punished for a period of less than three years.
Imprisonment, criminal detention, or surveillance, concurrently or solely with penalties; if the amount is huge or there are other serious circumstances, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than one year and concurrently
Penalties; if the amount is particularly large or there are other particularly serious circumstances, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than one year or long-term imprisonment, as well as punishment or confiscation of property. "
One, in Article 207 of the Criminal Law, a paragraph is added as the fifth paragraph: “For violent attacks on civilian police officers who are performing their duties in accordance with the law, in accordance with Article No. 1
The provisions of the paragraph are severely punished. "
⼆⼆, Amend Article 20 of the Criminal Law to read: "Forgery, alteration, sale, or theft, snatch, or destruction of public documents, certificates, and seals of state agencies
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights, and be punished; if the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than one year
Punish and punish people.
"Anyone who forges the seals of companies, enterprises, institutions, or civil organizations shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights, and shall also be punished
Penalties.
"Forgery, alteration, trading of resident identity cards, passports, social security cards, driver’s licenses and other documents that can be used to prove identity in accordance with the law shall be punished for less than three years
Fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights, and punishment; if the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years, and shall be punished. "
↗3. After Article twentieth of the Criminal Law, an article is added as one of the twentieth Articles: “In activities that require identification of identity in accordance with national regulations
, The use of forged, altered or stolen other people’s resident ID, passport, social security card, driver’s license and other documents that can be used to prove identity in accordance with the law,
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to criminal detention or control, and concurrently or solely punished.
"Where the acts mentioned in the preceding paragraph constitute other crimes at the same time, they shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of heavier punishments.
Fourth. Amend Article No. 100 and Article 3 of the Criminal Law to read: "Anyone who produces or sells special espionage equipment or special equipment for eavesdropping or stealing photos shall be punished for three years or more.
The next fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention, or surveillance shall be punished concurrently or solely; if the circumstances are serious, he shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years, and shall also be punished.
"If a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
Penalty. "
Fifth, an article is added after Article 4 of the Criminal Law as one of the 4th Articles of the Second 100: “Organize cheating in national examinations stipulated by law
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or less than seven years, and be punished concurrently or solely.
"Whoever provides cheating equipment or other assistance for others to commit the crimes mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"In order to implement cheating in an exam, anyone who sells or provides the test questions and answers of the examination stipulated in the first paragraph to others in violation of the law shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph.
"Anyone who replaces him or lets him take the examination prescribed in paragraph 1 shall be sentenced to detention or control, and concurrently or solely punished."
Sixth. One paragraph is added as the fourth paragraph in Article 20 and Article 5 of the Criminal Law: "Where a unit commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding three paragraphs, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment and directly responsible for it.
The responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. "
Seventh. A paragraph is added to Article 20 and Article 6 of the Criminal Law as the fourth paragraph: “Where a unit commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding three paragraphs, the unit shall be punished and directly liable for it.
The responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1. "
One article is added after the second sixteenth article of the Criminal Law as one of the second one hundredth six articles: "Network service providers do not comply with laws and administrative laws
The information network security management obligations stipulated by the regulations, if the supervisory department is ordered to take corrective measures but refuse to make corrections, if there is one of the following circumstances, it will be punished for a period of less than three years
Imprisonment, criminal detention or surveillance, concurrent or single punishment:
"(1) Caused the massive dissemination of illegal information;

"(⼆) Causes the disclosure of user information and causes serious consequences;
"(3) The circumstances are serious, causing the destruction of evidence in a criminal case;
"(4) There are other serious circumstances.
"Where a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the person in charge and other persons directly responsible for it shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"Where the actions of the preceding two paragraphs constitute other crimes at the same time, they shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of the heavier punishment."
⼆ IX. After the twentieth and seventeenth articles of the Criminal Law, an additional article is added as one of the twentieth and seventeenth articles and one of the twentieth and seventeenth articles:
“One of the Seventh Articles of the Hundred and Seventh Articles of Use of the Information Network to implement one of the following actions. If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention, and either
Single penalty:
"(1) Set up websites and communication groups for illegal and criminal activities such as fraud, imparting criminal laws, making or selling prohibited items, controlled items, etc.
Group

(⼆) Publish information related to the production or sale of drugs, guns, obscene materials and other prohibited or controlled items or other illegal and criminal information;
"(3) Publishing information for the implementation of fraud and other illegal and criminal activities.
"If a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph.
Penalty.
"Where the actions of the preceding two paragraphs constitute other crimes at the same time, they shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of the heavier punishment.
"The Seventh Article of the Second Hundred and Seventh Article knows that others use the information network to commit crimes, and provides Internet access, server hosting, network storage, and communication for their crimes.
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention, and concurrently or
Punishment alone.
"If a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph.
Penalty.
"Where the actions of the preceding two paragraphs constitute other crimes at the same time, they shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of the heavier punishment."
3. Amend the second paragraph of Article 20 of the Criminal Law to read: "Violation of national regulations, unauthorized setting, use of wireless radio stations (stations), or unauthorized use
If the frequency of the wireless power line interferes with the order of the wireless power line communication, and the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention or surveillance, and concurrently or solely punished; the circumstances
Particularly serious ones shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years, and be punished. "
Third, the Criminal Law Article 209, Paragraph 1 is amended to read: “Gathering crowds to disrupt social order, the circumstances are serious, resulting in work, production, business and teaching,
If scientific research or medical treatment is unlawful and cause serious losses, it shall be divided into sub-groups and sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years; for those who actively participate, they shall be sentenced to three years
The following fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights. "
Add another paragraph as the third and fourth paragraphs: "If the order of state organs has been disrupted for many times, and no correction has been made after political punishment, and serious consequences have been caused, they shall be sentenced to three
Fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention or surveillance under one year.
"If the circumstances are serious by organizing and funding other illegal gatherings and disrupting social order, they shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph."
Third, a paragraph is added as the second paragraph to Article twentieth and ninety-ninth articles of the Criminal Law: “Making up false dangers, epidemics, disasters, and police situations.
Spread on the Internet or other media, or knowingly that it is the above-mentioned false information, deliberately spreading on the information network or other media, seriously disrupting social order,
Sentence to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention or surveillance; if serious consequences are caused, fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years. "
3. Third. Amend Article 300 of the Criminal Law to read: "Organize, use guilds, cult organizations, or use superstition to undermine the implementation of national laws and administrative regulations
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years and be punished; if the circumstances are particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than seven years or unlimited imprisonment, and they shall be punished or punished.
If the circumstances are less serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention, surveillance, or deprivation of political rights, and concurrently or solely punished.
"Those who organize or use guilds, cult organizations, or use superstition to deceive others, causing serious injuries or death, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"Anyone who commits the crime of the first paragraph and commits other criminal acts such as adultery, defrauding property, etc., shall be punished in accordance with the provisions on the combined punishment of multiple crimes."
34. Amend Article 300 of the Criminal Law to read: “Those who steal, insult, deliberately destroy the body, body, or filth shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, and detention.
Service or control. "
35. After Article 307 of the Criminal Law, an article is added as one of Article 307: “Initiating a civil lawsuit with fabricated facts would obstruct judicial order.
If the lawful rights and interests of others are seriously violated, he shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention or surveillance, and shall be punished concurrently or solely; if the circumstances are serious, he shall be sentenced to three years.
The above-mentioned fixed-term imprisonment for not more than seven years, and punishments.
"Where a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the person in charge and other persons directly responsible for it shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
"If there is a behavior in the first paragraph, illegal possession of other property or evasion of legal debts, which constitutes other crimes, shall be convicted and severely punished in accordance with the provisions of heavier punishments
Penalty.
"Judicial officials who use their powers to implement the actions of the preceding three paragraphs together with others shall be severely punished; if they also constitute other crimes, they shall be punished in accordance with the heavier penalties.
Conviction and severe punishment. "
36. An article is added after Article 300 of the Criminal Law as one of Article 300: "Judicial staff, defenders, litigation agents or
Participants in other litigation, divulging information that should not be disclosed in a case that is not publicly heard in accordance with the law, causing the public dissemination of information or other serious consequences, shall be sentenced to three
Fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention or surveillance under one year, concurrent or single punishment.
"Whoever commits the preceding paragraph and reveals state secrets shall be convicted and punished in accordance with the provisions of Article 3.9 of this Law.
"Public disclosure and reporting of the case information specified in the first paragraph shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph if the circumstances are serious.
"If a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph.
Penalty".
37. Amend Article 309 of the Criminal Law to read: "Anyone who disrupts court order shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention, surveillance, or
Penalty:
"(1) Gathering crowds to make noise and attack the court;

"(⼆) Assaulting judicial officers or participating in litigation;
"(3) Insult, slander, threaten judicial officials or participants in litigation, refuse to obey the court system, and seriously disrupt court order;
"(4) Destroying court facilities, robbing, damaging litigation documents, evidence, etc., disrupting court order, and the circumstances are serious."
III. Amend Article 300 of the Criminal Law to read: “Knowing that others have committed crimes of espionage, terrorism, or extremism,
When investigating the relevant circumstances and collecting relevant evidence, he refuses to provide it, and if the circumstances are serious, he shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years, criminal detention or surveillance. "
3.9. Amend Article 303 of the Criminal Law to read: "If the judgment or ruling of the People's Court is capable of being enforced or not, if the circumstances are serious, it shall be sentenced to 3.
Fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention, or fines under one year; if the circumstances are particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years, and be punished.
"If a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
Penalty. "
Fourth, Article 300 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: "Violation of national (border) border management regulations, illegal crossing of national (border) borders, and serious circumstances shall be sentenced to less than one year
Fixed-term imprisonment, criminal detention or surveillance, and punishment; in order to participate in terrorist organization, receive training in terrorist activities, or carry out terrorist activities, illegally cross the country (side)
If they are not in a situation, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than one year and not more than three years, and shall also be punished. "
Amendments to the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China (9) (3 in full) Broadcast time: 2015-08-3001:14:00
Fourth, the Criminal Law Article 350 Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2 are amended to read: "violation of national regulations, non-legal production, trading, transportation of acetic anhydride, ether,
Trichloromethane or other raw materials and formulations used in the manufacture of drugs, or carrying the above-mentioned items into or out of the country, if the circumstances are serious, shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years and detention.
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years, and be punished; where the circumstances are particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to more than seven years.
Term imprisonment, and punishment or confiscation of property.
"Anyone who knows that he is producing drugs for the production, trading, or transportation of the items specified in the preceding paragraph shall be punished as an accomplice in the crime of manufacturing drugs."
Fourth, Article 350 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: "Whoever organizes or forces others to engage in prostitution shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than five years but not more than one year, and shall be punished;
If the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than one year or unlimited imprisonment, and shall be punished or confiscated of property.
"Those who organize or force underage prostitution shall be severely punished in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.

"Anyone who commits the crimes mentioned in the preceding two paragraphs and commits crimes such as killing, injuring, rape, kidnapping, etc., shall be punished in accordance with the provisions on the combined punishment of multiple crimes.
"Anyone who recruits or transports people for the organization of prostitution, or has other assistance in organizing other prostitution, shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than five years and be punished; the circumstances
In serious cases, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than five years but not more than one year, and be punished. "
Fourth, third, delete paragraph 2 of Article 366 of the Criminal Law.
4.4. Amend Article 303 of the Criminal Law to read: "Those who commit the crime of corruption shall be punished in accordance with the following provisions according to the seriousness of the circumstances:
"(1) Those who have embezzled a large amount or have other heavier circumstances shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention, and shall be punished.
"(1) Those who have embezzled a huge amount or have other serious circumstances shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than one year, and shall be punished or confiscated of property.
"(3) Where the amount of embezzlement is particularly large or there are other particularly serious circumstances, it shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than ten years or long-term imprisonment, and shall be punished or confiscated
Property: If the amount is extremely large and the interests of the country and the people suffer particularly heavy losses, they shall be sentenced to unfixed imprisonment or the death penalty, as well as confiscation of property.
"Those who have been embezzled many times without being dealt with shall be punished according to the accumulated amount of embezzlement.
"If you commit the crime of the first paragraph, you should truthfully confess your own crimes, sincerely repent, and actively return the stolen goods before prosecution, to avoid and reduce the issuance of damage results, there is the first item
Under the prescribed circumstances, the penalty may be lightened, mitigated, or exempted; where the circumstances specified in Item 2 and Item 3 are met, the penalty may be lightened.
"If a crime is committed in the first paragraph and is sentenced to a suspended death sentence under the circumstances specified in the third paragraph, the people’s court may also decide on the death penalty based on the circumstances of the crime and other circumstances.
After the expiration of the suspended period of execution for a period of two years has been reduced to a permanent imprisonment in accordance with the law, they shall be sentenced to final imprisonment without commutation or parole. "
4-5. Amend Article 399 of the Criminal Law to read: "Anyone who commits the crime of bribery shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than five years or criminal detention, and shall be punished;
If the illegitimate interest is serious, or the national interest suffers severe losses, he shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than five years but not more than one year, and shall be punished; the circumstances are particularly special
If it is serious, or if it causes a particularly severe loss of national interests, it shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of more than ten years or long-term imprisonment, and shall be punished or confiscated of property.
"A briber who voluntarily confesses his bribery before being prosecuted can be given a lighter or mitigated punishment. Among them, the crime is relatively minor, which is crucial to the detection of serious cases
Those who are used or who have strong performances may be mitigated or exempted from punishment. "
46. ​An article is added after Article 399 of the Criminal Law as one of Article 399: “In order to seek illegitimate gains, we must be close to members of the country.
Relatives or other people close to the country’s staff, or to the country where they left their jobs or their close relatives and other close relations with them
Those who take bribes shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or criminal detention, and shall be punished; where the circumstances are serious, or the national interests suffer heavy losses, they shall be sentenced to more than three years
A fixed-term imprisonment of not more than seven years and a fine; where the circumstances are particularly serious, or where the national interest suffers a particularly serious loss, the sentence shall be not less than seven years but not more than one year.
Imprisonment and punishment.
"Where a unit commits the crime mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the unit shall be sentenced to punishment, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years or
The person was detained and punished. "
Forty-seventh, Article 399 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: “In order to seek illegitimate benefits, state agencies, state-owned companies, enterprises, and business entities shall be
If a person or group of people uses property, or in economic transactions, in violation of national regulations, giving various rebates and renewal fees in various names, it shall be sentenced to a fixed-term prison of less than three years.
Punishment or criminal detention, and punish them. "
Fourth, the Criminal Law Article 399, Paragraph 1 is amended to read: “Introduce bribery to state officials, if the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years
Or detention and punishment. "
49. Article 393 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: “The unit makes bribery for illegitimate gains, or violates national regulations and grants national workers
If the circumstances are serious, the unit shall be punished with rebates or renewal fees, and the directly responsible supervisor and other directly responsible personnel shall be sentenced to less than five years
Fixed-term imprisonment or criminal detention, and penalties. The illegal gains obtained as a result of bribery belong to the individual, in accordance with Article 309 and Article 399 of this law
Provide for conviction and punishment. "
V. Amend Article 4.6 of the Criminal Law to read: "Anyone who uses violence or threats to obstruct commanders or duty or duty officers from performing their duties shall be punished.
Fixed-term imprisonment of not more than five years or criminal detention; if the circumstances are serious, they shall be sentenced to not less than five years but not more than one year; if the circumstances are particularly serious, they shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than ten years
Or unlimited imprisonment. Severe punishments in wartime. "
5. Article 433 of the Criminal Law is amended to read: “Whoever spreads rumors and destabilizes the army during wartime shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years; if the circumstances are serious, he shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment.
Fixed-term imprisonment not less than three years but not more than one year; if the circumstances are particularly serious, fixed-term imprisonment of not less than one year or more than one year imprisonment or unlimited imprisonment shall be imposed. "
In May, this amendment will be implemented from November 1st, 2015.
Editor in charge: Ma Juan

Phase off link connection
Looking back on the course of three deliberation of the Criminal Law Amendment (9)

National
Ministry of State Council Station

Local government station

National Committee
Highest
of court
the Chinese
Highest
People's
Prosecutor's
Political
Office
Consultative Conference

Stations of institutions in Hong Kong and
Foreign
Macauagencies

media

Central Enterprise Website

Copyright: Chinese Government | About Us | Site Statement | Site Map | Contact Us
Beijing ICP No. 05070218 Chinese domain name: Chinese government. Government affairs

