Unofficial Translation July 2013

08/12/1992 | Act of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in

relation to the processing of personal data
(Belgian Official Journal, 18 March 1993) – Consolidated version 08/07/2013
Unofficial English Translation July 2013

Chapter I. Definitions, Principle and Scope
Art 1. § 1. For the purposes of this Act "personal data" means any information relating to an identified or
identifiable natural person, hereinafter the "data subject"; an identifiable person is one who can be
identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one or more
factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity.
§ 2. '"Processing" means any operation or set of operations which is performed upon personal data,
whether or not by automatic means, such as collection, recording, organization, storage, adaptation or
alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by means of transmission, dissemination or otherwise
making available, alignment or combination, blocking, erasure or destruction of personal data.
§ 3. "Filing system" means any structured set of personal data which is accessible according to specific
criteria, whether centralized, de-centralized, or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis.
§ 4. "Controller" means any natural or legal person, un-associated organization or public authority which
alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data. If the
purposes and means of the processing are determined by or by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance, the
controller is the natural person, legal person, un-associated organization or public authority that has been
designated as such by or by virtue of that act, decree or ordinance.
§ 5. "Processor" means any natural person, legal person, un-associated organization or public authority
which processes personal data on behalf of the controller, except for the persons who, under the direct
authority of the controller, are authorized to process the data.
§ 6. "Third party" means any natural or legal person, un-associated organization or public authority other
than the data subject, the controller, the processor and anyone who, under the direct authority of the
controller or the processor, is authorized to process the data.

1

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 7. "Recipient" means a natural or legal person, un-associated organization or public authority to whom
data is disclosed, whether a third party or not; administrative or judicial authorities which can receive
data in the framework of a special investigation are, however, not regarded as recipients.
§ 8. "The data subject's consent" means any freely given specific and informed indication of his wishes by
which the data subject signifies his or his legal representative's agreement to the processing of personal
data relating to the data subject.
Art 2. Any natural person is entitled to protection of his fundamental rights and freedoms, especially the
protection of his privacy, with regard to the processing of personal data relating to him.
Art 3. § 1. This Act applies to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by automatic means, and
to the processing otherwise than by automatic means of personal data which forms part of a filing system
or is intended to form part of a filing system.
§ 2. This Act does not apply to the processing of personal data by a natural person in the course of a
purely personal or household activity.
§ 3. a) Articles 6, 7 and 8 do not apply to the processing of personal data solely for the purposes of
journalism or the purposes of artistic or literary expression, if the processing relates to personal data
which has apparently been made public by the data subject or which is closely related to the public
nature of the data subject or of the facts in which the data subject is involved.
b) Article 9, § 1, does not apply to the processing of personal data solely for journalistic purposes or the
purpose of artistic or literary expression, if the application of this article would interfere with the
collection of data from the data subject. Article 9, § 2, does not apply to the processing of personal data
solely for the purposes of journalism or the purposes of artistic or literary expression, if the application of
the article would have one or more of the following effects:
- the application interferes with the collection of the data;
- the application interferes with an intended publication;
- the application provides indications as to the sources of information.
c) Articles 10 and 12 do not apply to the processing of personal data solely for the purposes of journalism
or for the purposes of artistic or literary expression, to the extent that the application of the articles
would interfere with an intended publication or provide indications as to the sources of information.
d) Articles 17, § 3, 9° and 12°, § 4 and § 8, as well as articles 18, 21 and 22 do not apply to the
processing of personal data solely for the purposes of journalism or the purposes of artistic or literary
expression.
2

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 4. Articles 6 to 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, 17bis, paragraph one, 18, 20 and 31, §§ 1 to 3 do not apply to the
processing of personal data by the State Security Service, the General Intelligence and Security Service of
the Armed Forces, by the Authorities referred to in articles 15, 22ter and 22quinquies of the Act of 11
December

1998

on classification and security clearances, security certificates and security

recommendations and the Appeal Board created by the Act of 11 December 1998 creating an Appeal
Board in respect of security authorizations, security certificates and security recommendations, by the
Security Officers and the Permanent Oversight Committee of the Intelligence Services and its
Investigative Service, and the Coordinating Authority for Threat Analysis, if the processing is necessary
for the fulfilment of their duties.
§ 5. Articles 9, 10, § 1 and 12 do not apply:
1° to the processing of personal data managed by public authorities with a view to the fulfilment of their
judicial police duties;
2° to the processing of personal data managed by the police services referred to in article 3 of the Act of
18 July 1991 regulating police and intelligence service supervision with a view to the fulfilment of their
administrative police duties;
3° to the processing of personal data managed by any other public authority that has been designated by
Royal Decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission
for the Protection of Privacy, with a view to the fulfilment of that authority's administrative police duties;
4° to the processing of personal data that has become necessary as a result of the application of the Act
of 11 January 1993 preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering;
5° to the processing of personal data managed by the Permanent Oversight Committee of the Police
Services and its Investigative Service with a view to the fulfilment of their legal duties.
§ 6. Articles 6, 8, 9, 10, § 1, and 12 do not apply after royal authorization by decree after deliberation in
the Council of Ministers of processing operations managed by the European Centre for Missing and
Sexually Exploited Children, hereinafter "the Centre", an organization of public interest founded by deed
on 25 June 1997 and recognized by Royal Decree on 10 July 1997 on the collection, transmission to the

judiciary and follow-up of data relating to persons who are under suspicion of a crime or misdemeanour
in a specific dossier concerning a missing person or sexual abuse. This decree establishes the duration
and conditions of the authorization, having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of
Privacy.
The Centre must not keep any file on persons suspected of a crime or misdemeanour or of convicted
persons.
3

Unofficial Translation July 2013

The Board of Directors of the Centre shall designate among the Centre's staff members a data protection
officer in charge of data processing, who is familiar with personal data management and protection. The
fulfilment of his duties must not result in any adverse effect on him. More particularly, he must not be
dismissed or replaced as data protection officer on the grounds of the fulfilment of the duties that have
been assigned to him. By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion
of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King shall lay down the duties of the data protection
officer and the way in which they shall be fulfilled as well as the way in which the Centre shall report to
the Commission for the Protection of Privacy on the processing of personal data in the context of the
authorization granted.
The members of staff as well as the individuals processing personal data on behalf of the Centre are
bound to secrecy.
Any violation of the obligation of secrecy is punished in accordance with the provisions of article 458 of
the Belgian Criminal Code.
In the context of its supporting role during the search for children reported missing or abducted the
Centre may only record telephone conversations if the caller is informed of the recording and to the
extent that he has not objected thereto.
§ 7. Without prejudice to the application of specific legal provisions, article 10 does not apply to
processing operations of personal data managed by the Federal Public Service of Finance for the period in
which the data subject is subject to an inspection, an investigation or related preparatory activities
carried out by the Federal Public Service of Finance in the context of the fulfilment of its legal missions, to
the extent that the application of this article would constitute a disadvantage for the inspection, the
investigation or for the preparatory activities, and only for the duration of the inspection, the
investigation or the preparatory activities.
The period in which article 10 is not applicable during these preparatory activities must, however, not
exceed one year starting from the request submitted in application of this article 10.
When the Federal Public Service of Finance has made use of the exception described in the first
paragraph, this exception shall immediately be cancelled upon termination of the inspection or the
investigation or upon termination of the preparatory activities if these did not result in an inspection or an
investigation. The Information Security and Privacy Protection Service shall inform data subjects of this
cancellation without delay and will provide them with the full motivation as included in the decision of the
controller who made use of the exception.

4

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 3bis. This Act applies:
1° to the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the effective and actual activities of
any controller permanently established on Belgian territory or in a place where Belgian law applies by
virtue of international public law;
2° to the processing of personal data by a controller who is not permanently established on European
Community territory, if the means used, which can be automatic or other means located on Belgian
territory, are not the same as the means used for processing personal data only for the purposes of
transit of personal data through Belgian territory.
In the circumstances referred to in the previous paragraph under 2°, the controller shall designate a
representative established on Belgian territory, without prejudice to legal proceedings that may be
brought against the controller himself.

Chapter II. General rules on the lawfulness of the processing of personal data
Art 4. § 1. Personal data must be:
1° processed fairly and lawfully;
2° collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and, taking into account all relevant factors,
especially the reasonable expectations of the data subject and the applicable legal and regulatory
provisions and must not be further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes. Under the
conditions established by the King, having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of
Privacy, further processing of data for historical, statistical or scientific purposes is not considered
incompatible;
3° adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which it is collected or further
processed;
4° accurate and, where necessary, kept up-to-date; every reasonable step must be taken to ensure that
data which is inaccurate or incomplete with respect to the purposes for which it is collected or for which it
is further processed, is erased or rectified;
5° kept in a form that allows for the identification of data subjects, for no longer than necessary with a
view to the purposes for which the data is collected or further processed. Having received the opinion of
the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King shall establish appropriate safeguards for personal
data stored longer than stated above for historical, statistical or scientific purposes.
§2. The controller must ensure compliance with § 1.
Art 5. Personal data may only be processed in the following cases:
a) the data subject has unambiguously given his consent;
5

Unofficial Translation July 2013

b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party or in
order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with an obligation to which the controller is subject under
or by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance;
d) the processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the
exercise of the official authority vested in the controller or in a third party to whom the data is disclosed;
f) if the processing is necessary for the promotion of the legitimate interests of the controller or the third
party to whom the data is disclosed, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject claiming protection under this Act.
By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for
the Protection of Privacy, the King can specify the circumstances in which the condition stipulated under
f) is considered as not having been met.
Art 6. § 1. The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or
philosophical beliefs or trade-union membership as well as the processing of data concerning sex life, is
prohibited.
§ 2. The prohibition to process the data referred to in § 1 does not apply in the following cases:
a) the data subject has given his consent in writing to such processing, on the understanding that this
consent can be withdrawn by the data subject at any time; by decree after deliberation in the Council of
Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King may
determine the cases in which the prohibition to process the data referred to in this article cannot be lifted
by the data subject's consent;
b) the processing is necessary to carry out the obligations and specific rights of the controller in the field
of employment law;
c) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another person,
where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving his consent;
d) the processing is carried out in the course of its legitimate activities by a foundation, association or
any other non-profit organization with a political, philosophical, religious, health-insurance or trade-union
aim and on condition that the processing relates solely to the members of the organization or to persons
who have regular contact with it in connection with its purposes and that the data is not disclosed to a
third party without the data subjects' consent;
e) the processing relates to data which has apparently been made public by the data subject;
f) the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
6

Unofficial Translation July 2013

g) the processing is necessary for the purposes of scientific research and is carried out under the
conditions established by the King by decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received
the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy;
h) the processing is necessary to comply with social security laws;
i) the processing is carried out according to the Act of 4 July 1962 on Public Statistics;
j) the processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine or medical diagnosis, the provision
of care or treatment to the data subject or one of his relatives, or the management of health-care
services provided in the interest of the data subject, and when the data is processed under the
supervision of a health professional;
k) the processing is carried out by associations with a legal personality or organizations of public interest
whose main objective is the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with a
view to achieving that objective, provided that the processing has been authorized by the King, by decree
after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for the
Protection of Privacy;
l) the processing of personal data referred to in § 1 is authorized by an act, decree or ordinance for
another reason of substantial public interest.
In the case referred to in j), the health professional and his agents or assignees are subject to an
obligation of secrecy.
§ 3. Without prejudice to the application of articles 7 and 8 of this Act, the processing of personal data
relating to sex life is authorized if it is carried out by an association with a legal personality or by an
organization of public interest whose main objective, according to its articles of association, is the
evaluation, guidance and treatment of persons whose sexual conduct can be qualified as an offence, and
who has been recognized and subsidized for the achievement of that objective by the competent public
authority; for such processing, the objective of which must consist of the evaluation, guidance and
treatment of the persons referred to in this paragraph, and for which the processing of personal data, if it
concerns sex life, only relates to the aforementioned persons, the King must grant a specific,
individualized authorization by decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the
opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. The decree referred to in this paragraph specifies
the duration of the authorization, the conditions for supervision of the authorized association or
organization by the competent authority, and the way in which the authority must report to the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy on the processing.

7

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 4. By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King shall specify the conditions to be met for the
processing of the personal data referred to in this article.
Art 7. § 1. The processing of health-related personal data is prohibited.
§ 2. The prohibition to process the data referred to in § 1 does not apply in the following cases:
a) the data subject has given his written consent to such processing, with the understanding that the
consent can be withdrawn by the data subject at any time; by decree after deliberation in the Council of
Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King can
establish the cases in which the prohibition to process health-related data cannot be lifted by the written
consent of the data subject;
b) the processing is necessary to carry out the specific obligations and rights of the controller in the field
of employment law;
c) the processing is necessary to comply with social security laws;
d) the processing is necessary for the promotion and protection of public health, including medical
examination of the population;
e) the processing is required by or by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance for reasons of substantial
public interest;
f) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or another person, where
the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving his consent;
g) the processing is necessary for the prevention of imminent danger or the mitigation of a specific
criminal offence;
h) the processing relates to data which has apparently been made public by the data subject;
i) the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal rights;
j) the processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine or medical diagnosis, the provision
of care or treatment to the data subject or to one of his relatives, or the management of health-care
services in the interest of the data subject, and the data is processed under the supervision of a health
professional;
k) the processing is required for the purposes of scientific research and carried out under the conditions
established by the King by decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the
opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
§ 3. By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy the King shall lay down the specific conditions to be met when
processing the personal data referred to in this article.
8

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 4. Health-related personal data may only be processed under the responsibility of a health-care
professional, except if the data subject has given his written consent or if the processing is necessary for
the prevention of imminent danger or for the mitigation of a specific criminal offence.
By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for
the Protection of Privacy, the King can establish the categories of persons who are considered health-care
professionals for the purposes of this Act.
The health-care professional and his agents or assignees are subject to an obligation of secrecy with
regard to the processing of personal data referred to in this article.
§ 5. Health-related personal data must be collected from the data subject.
It may only be collected from other sources if paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article are complied with, and if
such is necessary for the purposes of the processing, or if the data subject is incapable of providing the
data.
Art 8. § 1. The processing of personal data relating to litigation that has been submitted to courts and
tribunals as well as to administrative judicial bodies, relating to suspicions, prosecutions or convictions in
matters of crime, administrative sanctions or security measures, is prohibited.
§ 2. The prohibition to process the personal data referred to in § 1 does not apply to processing
operations:
a) under the supervision of a public authority or ministerial civil servant as defined by the Belgian Code of
Civil Proceedings, if the processing is necessary for the fulfilment of their duties;
b) by other persons, if the processing is necessary to achieve purposes that have been established by or
by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance;
c) by natural persons, private or public legal persons, to the extent that the processing is necessary to
manage their litigations;
d) by lawyers or other legal advisors, to the extent that the processing is necessary for the protection of
their clients' interests;
e) if the processing is required for scientific research and carried out under the conditions established by
the King by decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
§ 3. Persons authorized under § 2 to process the personal data referred to in § 1 are subject to an
obligation of secrecy.
9

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 4. By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King shall establish the specific conditions to be met when
processing the personal data referred to in § 1.

Chapter III - Rights of the data subject
Art 9. § 1. If personal data relating to the data subject is obtained directly from the data subject, the
controller or his representative shall provide the data subject with at least the following information, no
later than the moment the data is obtained, unless the data subject has already received such
information:
a) the name and address of the controller and of his representative, if any;
b) the purposes of the processing;
c) the existence of the right to object, by request and free of charge, to the intended processing of
personal data relating to him, if it is obtained for the purposes of direct marketing;
d) other additional information, in particular:
- the recipients or categories of recipients of the data,
- whether it is compulsory to reply, and what the possible consequences of the failure to reply are;
- the existence of the right to access and rectify the personal data relating to him; except where such
additional information, taking into account the specific circumstances in which the data is collected, is not
necessary to guarantee correct processing in respect to the data subject.
e) other information dependent on the specific nature of the processing, as specified by the King, having
received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
§ 2. If the personal data is not collected from the data subject, the controller or his representative must
provide the data subject with at least the information below when recording the personal data or when
considering communication to a third party, and at the very latest when the data is first disclosed, unless
the data subject has already received such information:
a) the name and address of the controller and of his representative, if any;
b) the purposes of the processing;
c) the existence of a right to object, by request and free of charge, to the intended processing of
personal data relating to him, if it is obtained for the purposes of direct marketing; in that case, the data
subject must be informed prior to the first disclosure of the personal data to a third party or prior to the
first use of the data for the purposes of direct marketing on behalf of third parties;
d) other additional information, in particular:
- the categories of data concerned;
- the recipients or categories of recipients of the data;
10

Unofficial Translation July 2013

- whether compliance with the request for information is compulsory or not, as well as what the
consequences of the failure to comply are;
- the existence of the right to access and rectify the personal data relating to him, unless such additional
information, taking into account the specific circumstances in which the data is provided, is not necessary
to guarantee fair processing with respect to the data subject.
e) other information dependent on the specific nature of the processing, which is specified by the King,
having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
The controller is exempt from the duty of information under this paragraph where:
a) informing the data subject proves impossible or would involve a disproportionate effort, in particular
for statistical purposes or for the purpose of historical or scientific research, or for the purpose of medical
examination of the population with a view to protecting and promoting public health;
b) personal data is recorded or provided with a view to the application of a provision laid down by or by
virtue of an act, decree or ordinance. By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having
received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King shall establish the
conditions for the application of the previous paragraph.
If the first disclosure of the data took place before this provision took effect, the data subject must be
informed, by way of derogation from the first paragraph, at the very latest within 3 years of the
enforcement date of this provision. The data subject does not have to be informed, however, if the
controller was exempt from the duty to inform the data subject of the recording of the data by virtue of
legal and regulatory provisions applicable on the day preceding the date this stipulation took effect.
Art 10. § 1. Any data subject who proves his identity has the right to obtain from the controller:
a) information on whether or not data relating to him is being processed, as well as information regarding
the purposes of the processing, the categories of data the processing relates to, and the categories of
recipients the data is disclosed to;
b) communication of the data being processed in an intelligible form, as well as of any available source
information;
c) information about the basic logic involved in any automatic processing of data relating to him in case
of automated decision making as defined by article 12bis;
d) information regarding his appeal rights under articles 12 and 14 and his right to consult the public
register referred to in article 18, if necessary.
To obtain such information the data subject shall submit a signed and dated request to the controller or
to any other person designated by the King. The information shall be communicated without delay, at the
11

Unofficial Translation July 2013

very latest forty-five days after receipt of the request. The King can specify further rules relating to the
exercise of the right referred to in paragraph one.
§ 2. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 9, § 2 of the Act of 22 August 2002 on Patient Rights,
any person has the right to be informed of the personal data that is processed in relation to his health,
either directly or through a healthcare professional.
Without prejudice to the provisions of article 9, § 2 of the above-mentioned Act, such data may be
provided at the controller's or the data subject's request, through the intervention of a healthcare
professional designated by the data subject.
If there is no evident risk of infringing on the data subject's right to protection of his privacy and if the
data is not used in order to take measures and decisions with regard to an individual data subject,
informing the data subject may be postponed at the latest until the moment the research is ended if the
health-related data is processed for the purposes of medical-scientific research, but only to the extent
that informing the data subject would seriously compromise the research.
In that case the data subject must have given the controller his previous written consent to the
processing of personal data relating to him for medical-scientific purposes and to postponing, for that
reason, the moment at which he is informed.
§ 3. The requests referred to in § 1 and § 2 do not have to be complied with before the expiration of a
reasonable period of time, starting from the date mentioned on a prior request from the same person
that was complied with, or starting from the date the data was officially provided to this person.
Art 11. […] Repealed.
Art 12. § 1. Any person is entitled to the rectification of incorrect personal data relating to him free of
charge.
In addition, any person has the right to object to the processing of data relating to him, for substantial
and legitimate reasons related to his particular situation, unless the lawfulness of the processing is based
on the reasons referred to in article 5, b) and c). If personal data is obtained for the purposes of direct
marketing, the data subject may object to the intended processing of personal data relating to him, free
of charge and without reason.
In case of legitimate objection, the controller must stop processing the personal data.
Any person also has the right to obtain free of charge the erasure of or the prohibition to use all personal
data relating to him that is incomplete or irrelevant with a view to the purpose of the processing, or
where the recording, disclosure or storage of the data is prohibited, or where it has been stored for
longer than the authorized period of time.
12

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 2. In order to exercise the rights referred to in § 1, the data subject must submit a signed and dated
request to the controller or to any other person the King shall designate.
§ 3. Within a period of one month starting from the submission of the request referred to in § 2, the
controller shall communicate the rectifications or erasures of data, in accordance with § 1, to the data
subject as well as to all recipients of the incorrect, incomplete or irrelevant data, to the extent that he still
knows the recipients of the information and that informing these recipients does not prove impossible or
involve a disproportionate effort.
If the data subject objects to the processing or the intended processing of personal data relating to him
on the basis of § 1, paragraphs two and three, the controller shall inform the data subject within the
same period of time of the action he has undertaken to comply with the request.
§ 4. […]
Art 12bis. A decision having legal effects on a person or significantly affecting him, must not be taken
purely on the basis of automatic data processing with the aim of assessing certain aspects of his
personality.
The prohibition referred to in the first paragraph is not applicable if the decision is taken in the context of
an agreement or if it is based on a provision established by or by virtue of an Act, decree or ordinance.
That agreement or provision must contain suitable measures to safeguard the legitimate interests of the
data subject. The latter must be given at least the chance to defend his point of view efficiently.
Art 13. Anyone proving his identity has the right to address the Commission for the Protection of Privacy
free of charge, in order to exercise the rights referred to in articles 10 and 12 in relation to the processing
operations of personal data mentioned in article 3, §§ 4, 5, 6 and 7.
By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for
the Protection of Privacy, the King shall establish the manner in which these rights are to be exercised.
The Commission for the Protection of Privacy shall only inform the data subject of the fact that the
necessary verifications have been carried out.
If the data subject's request, however, relates to the processing of personal data by the police services
with a view to an identity check, then the King shall establish the information the Commission may
disclose to the data subject by decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the
opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy.

13

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 14. § 1. The President of the Court of First Instance, in summary proceedings, shall familiarize
himself with claims relating to the right of access to personal data granted by the law, as well as with
claims regarding the rectification of, erasure of or prohibition to use incorrect personal data or personal
data that is incomplete or irrelevant with a view to the purposes of the processing, or regarding personal
data that must not be recorded, communicated or stored, or personal data to the processing of which the
data subject has objected, or that have been stored for longer than the authorized period of time.
§ 2. The President of the Court in the complainant's place of residence is competent for the claims
referred to in § 1. If the complainant has no place of residence in Belgium, the President of the Court in
the controller's place of residence is competent if the controller is a natural person. If the controller is a
legal person, the President of the Court where the legal person's registered or administrative offices are
located, is competent.
The court order shall be issued in an open session. It shall be immediately enforceable notwithstanding
higher appeal or opposition.
§ 3. The claim shall be submitted in the form of an application inter partes.
The application must contain the following information or it shall be null and void:
1° the day, month and year;
2° the surname, first name, profession and place of residence of the complainant;
3° the surname, first name and place of residence of the person to be summoned;
4° the object of the claim and a brief summary of the legal arguments to support the claim;
5° the complainant's signature or that of his lawyer.
§ 4. The application shall be sent to the Court Registrar by registered letter or deposited at the
Registrar's Office.
Following the payment of the court fees, if necessary, the Court Registrar shall summon the parties by
court letter to appear in court for a hearing, at a date and time determined by the judge. The summons
shall be sent with an enclosed copy of the application.
§ 5. The claim made in accordance with § 1 shall only be admissible if the request referred to in article
10, § 1, or in article 12, § 2 has been rejected or if no effect has been given to it within the period of
time prescribed in article 10, § 1, paragraph two or, according to the case, article 12, § 3, paragraph one.
§ 6. If incorrect, incomplete or irrelevant data or data that must not be stored has been disclosed to third
parties, or if the disclosure took place after the authorized data retention period expired, the President of
14

Unofficial Translation July 2013

the Court can order the controller to inform the third parties concerned of the rectification or erasure of
the data.
§ 7. If due to compelling reasons the fear arises that evidence which may be produced for a claim
referred to in § 1, might be concealed or disappear, the President of the Court of First Instance, upon
receipt of an ex parte application signed and submitted by the party or its lawyer, shall order that every
measure be taken in order to prevent such concealment or disappearance.
§ 8. The provisions of §§ 6 and 7 do not limit the general jurisdiction of the President of the Court of First
Instance in summary proceedings.
Art 15. When the controller receives the request for rectification of, erasure of, or prohibition of the use
or disclosure of personal data, or when he is informed of the initiation of the proceedings referred to in
article 14, and until a decision has become final, the controller, when disclosing a personal datum, shall
immediately and clearly indicate that the datum concerned is contested.
Art 15bis. If the data subject incurs damage from an action in violation of the provisions of this Act,
paragraphs two and three shall apply, without prejudice to claims made on other legal grounds.
The controller shall be held liable for any damage as a result of an action in violation of the provisions of
this Act.
He shall be exempt from liability if he proves that the fact which caused the damage cannot be ascribed
to him.

Chapter IV - Confidentiality and Security of the Processing
Art 16. § 1. If a processor is entrusted with the processing, the controller or his representative in
Belgium, if any, must:
1° select a processor providing sufficient safeguards in respect of the technical and organizational
measures for the intended processing;
2° ensure compliance with these measures, in particular by contractual stipulations;
3° lay down the processor's liability towards the controller in that contract;
4° agree with the processor that the processor shall only act on behalf of the controller and that he is
bound by the same duties as the controller pursuant to paragraph 3;
5° establish, in writing or on an electronic medium, the elements of the contract with regard to the
protection of data and the requirements with regard to the measures referred to in paragraph 3.
15

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 2. The controller or his representative in Belgium, if any, must:
1° ensure with due care that the data is kept up-to-date, and that incorrect, incomplete and irrelevant
data, as well as data that was obtained or further processed in violation of articles 4 to 8, is rectified or
erased;
2° ensure that the number of individuals acting under his authority, as well as access to the data and the
possible operations carried out on it, are limited to what is necessary for these individuals to fulfil their
obligations or to whatever is necessary for the requirements of the service;
3° inform all individuals acting under his authority of the provisions of this Act and its implementing
decrees, and of all relevant provisions in respect to the protection of privacy in relation to the processing
of personal data;
4° ensure that the programmes used for the automatic processing of personal data correspond to the
information provided in the notification referred to in article 17, and that they are not used unlawfully.
§ 3. Any person having access to the personal data and acting under the authority of the controller or of
the processor, as well as the processor himself, may fulfil this obligation only as instructed by the
controller, without prejudice to any duty imposed by or by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance.
§ 4. In order to safeguard the security of the personal data, the controller or his representative in
Belgium, if any, as well as the processor, must take the appropriate technical and organizational
measures that are necessary to protect the personal data from accidental or unauthorized destruction,
accidental loss, as well as from alteration, access and any other unauthorized processing of the personal
data.
These measures must ensure an appropriate level of security taking into account the state of
technological development in this field and the cost of implementing the measures on the one hand, and
the nature of the data to be protected and the potential risks on the other.
Having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy the King may issue
appropriate standards relating to information security for all or certain categories of processing.

Chapter V - Prior Notification and Publicity of the Processing.
Art 17. § 1. Prior to any wholly or partly automatic operation or set of operations intended to serve a
single purpose or several related purposes, the controller or his representative, if any, must notify the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
The previous paragraph does not apply to operations having the sole purpose of keeping a register that is
intended to provide information to the public by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance and that is open to
consultation either by the general public or by any person demonstrating a legitimate interest.
16

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 2. The Commission shall provide a receipt of the notification within three working days. If the
notification is incomplete, the Commission must inform the person having submitted the notification of
this fact.
§ 3. The notification must mention:
1° the date of notification and the act, decree, ordinance or regulatory instrument regarding the
automatic processing, if any;
2° the surname, first names and complete address or the name and registered offices of the controller
and of his representative in Belgium, if any;
3° […](repealed);
4° the name of the automatic processing;
5° the purpose or the set of related purposes of the automatic processing;
6° the categories of personal data being processed and a detailed description of the data referred to in
articles 6 to 8;
7° the categories of recipients the data can be disclosed to;
8° the safeguards that must be linked to the disclosure of the data to third parties;
9° the manner in which the data subjects are informed, the service providing for the exercise of the right
to access and the measures taken to facilitate the exercise of that right;
10° the period of time after the expiration of which, if necessary, the data may no longer be stored, used
or disclosed;
11° a general description allowing for a preliminary assessment of whether the security measures taken
pursuant to article 16 of this Act are adequate;
12° the grounds supporting the controller's application of article 3, § 3 of this Act, if any.
§ 4. In the context of its powers of supervision and investigation referred to in articles 31 and 32, the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy is authorized to demand other information, in particular the
origin of the personal data, the choice of automation technology and the security measures that are in
place.
§ 5. Notification is required for any purpose or set of related purposes for which wholly or partly
automatic operations are carried out.
The Commission shall determine the nature and structure of the notification.

17

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 6. If the data being processed is intended, even on an occasional basis, to be transferred to a foreign
country, the notification must also mention the following elements, regardless of the medium that has
been used:
1° the categories of data being transferred;
2° for each category of data, the country of final destination.
§ 7. If the automatic processing is terminated or if any item of information referred to in § 3 is modified,
notification is also required.
§ 8. Having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King can exempt
certain categories from notification under this article if, taking into account the data being processed,
there is no apparent risk of infringement on the data subjects' rights and freedoms, and if the purposes
of the processing, the categories of data being processed, the categories of data subjects, the categories
of recipients and the data retention period are specified.
If exemption from the duty of notification has been granted for automatic processing in accordance with
the previous paragraph, the controller must disclose the items of information mentioned in §§ 3 and 6 to
any person requesting them.
.
§ 9. Upon submission of the notification, the controller shall pay a fee to the person designated as the
accountable party at the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, in accordance with the Acts on Public
Accounts. The King shall determine the amount for this fee, which must not exceed ten thousand francs.
[…] He shall also establish the terms of payment.
Art 17bis. Having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King shall
determine the categories of processing that imply specific risks with regard to the data subjects' personal
rights and freedoms, and establish the specific conditions for these processing operations, safeguarding
the data subjects' rights and freedoms, once again having received the proposal of the Commission for
the Protection of Privacy.
He can lay down in particular that the controller, alone or jointly with other controllers, shall designate a
data protection officer independently ensuring the application of this Act and of its implementing
measures.
By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the Commission for
the Protection of Privacy, the King shall lay down the status of the data protection officer.
Art 18. The Commission for the Protection of Privacy shall keep a register of all automatic processing
operations of personal data.
18

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Any entry in the register must include the information mentioned in article 17, §§ 3 and 6.
The register shall be open to consultation by all members of the public, in the manner determined by the
King.
Art 19. If the Commission for the Protection of Privacy is of the opinion that the non-automatic
processing of personal data that forms part of or is intended to form part of a filing system, possibly
infringes upon privacy, it may, either by virtue of its office or at the data subject's request, impose upon
the controller the obligation to disclose to the data subject all or part of the information mentioned in
article 17.
Art 20. If a specific system of prior authorization or notification of data processing has been provided for
by virtue of an act prescribing the disclosure of the information referred to in article 17, §§ 3 and 6 to a
special oversight committee as well as the entry into a public register of the information referred to in
article 17 §§ 3 and 6, the duties laid down in articles 17, 18 and 19 are considered to have been complied
with if all of this information is permanently kept at the disposal of the Commission for the Protection of
Privacy.
Article 17, § 9 is applicable accordingly.

Chapter VI - Transfer of Personal Data to Countries outside the European
Community
Art 21. § 1. Personal data being processed after it has been transferred to a country outside the
European Community may only be transferred if the country in question ensures an adequate level of
protection and if the other provisions of this Act and its implementing decrees have been complied with.
The adequacy of the level of protection is assessed in the light of all the circumstances surrounding a
data transfer operation or a set of data transfer operations; particular consideration is given to the nature
of the data, the purpose and duration of the proposed processing operation or operations, the country of
origin and country of final destination, the rules of law, both general and sectoral, in force in the third
party country in question and the professional rules and security measures which are complied with in
that country.
§ 2. Having received the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and pursuant to article
25 of Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data

and on the free movement of such data, the King shall lay down the categories of processing operations

19

Unofficial Translation July 2013

for which and the circumstances in which the transfer of personal data to countries outside the European
Community is not authorized.
Art 22. § 1. By way of derogation from article 21, a transfer or a set of transfers of personal data to a
country outside the European Community which does not ensure an adequate level of protection may
take place in one of the following cases:
1° the data subject has unambiguously given his consent to the proposed transfer;
2° the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the
controller or the implementation of precontractual measures taken in response to the data subject's
request;
3° the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded or to be concluded
between the controller and a third party in the interest of the data subject;
4° the transfer is necessary or legally required on important public interest grounds, or for the
establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
5° the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
6° the transfer is made from a register which, according to acts or regulations, is intended to provide
information to the public and which is open to consultation either by the public in general or by any
person who can demonstrate a legitimate interest, to the extent that the conditions laid down in law for
consultation are fulfilled in the case at hand.
Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King may authorize a transfer or a set of transfers of
personal data to a country outside the European Community which does not ensure an adequate level of
protection, if the controller ensures adequate safeguards with respect to the protection of privacy and
fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, and regarding the exercise of the corresponding rights;
such safeguards can result from appropriate contractual clauses in particular.

Chapter VII - The Commission for the Protection of Privacy
Art 23. An independent Commission shall be established under the auspices of the Belgian House of
Representatives, called "Commission for the Protection of Privacy", composed of members appointed by
the House of Representatives, including the President and the Vice-President.
The seat of the Commission shall be located in the administrative district of the Belgian capital of
Brussels.
Art 24. § 1. The Commission shall consist of eight permanent members, at least one of whom is a
magistrate acting as President, and of eight substitute members, at least one of whom is a magistrate.
20

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 2. The Commission shall consist of an equal number of Dutch native speakers and French native
speakers.
§ 3. […] (repealed)
§ 4. Commissioners shall be elected for a renewable six-year term from lists submitted by the Council of
Ministers, which proposes two candidates for each vacant mandate. They may be removed from office by
the Belgian House of Representatives for shortcomings in the fulfilment of their duties or for insufficient
respect for the dignity of their office.
Commissioners must offer all possible guarantees with a view to the independent discharge of their
functions and be experts in the field of data protection.
The Commission shall be composed in such a manner that there is a socio-economic balance among its
members.
In addition to the President, the Commission's permanent and substitute members include at least one
legal expert, one IT specialist, one private sector expert in personal data management and one public
sector expert in personal data management.
§ 5. To be appointed as permanent member or substitute member of the Commission and to maintain
such mandate, candidates must meet the following conditions:
1° have Belgian nationality;
2° have civil and political rights;
3° not be a member of the European Parliament, of the Federal Parliament nor of a Community or
Regional Parliament.
.
§ 6. Within the limits of their competences, commissioners shall not be instructed by anyone. They
cannot be removed from office for any opinion they have expressed or any action they have performed in
the fulfilment of their duties.
§ 7. Commissioners are not allowed to attend any deliberation on matters in which they, their relatives or
in-laws to the fourth degree have a personal interest.
Art 25. When a permanent member is excused, absent, or when his mandate becomes vacant, this
commissioner is replaced by his substitute.
The previous paragraph applies to the calculation of the quorum of attendance and to the vote referred
to in article 28, paragraph two, if any. The Commission may meet in a group of permanent and/or
substitute members.
21

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Any permanent or substitute member whose mandate becomes vacant before the expiration of the sixyear term, shall be replaced by a permanent or substitute member to be elected for the remainder of the
term, in accordance with the procedures referred to in article 24.
Art 26. § 1. The President of the Commission fulfils his duties on a full-time basis. His Court of Law must
transfer him by law. He is in charge of the day-to-day management of the Commission, supervises the
secretariat, presides over the meetings of the Commission in its various sections or authorizes another
member of the Commission to do so, and represents the Commission. He regularly reports to the
Commission during its Board meetings.
For the duration of his mandate, he must not exercise any other professional activity. The House that has
appointed him may authorize derogations from this incompatibility, provided that they do not interfere
with the proper fulfilment of his duties.
His replacement as magistrate takes place through supernumerary appointment. If the President is the
head of the Public Prosecution office or of any other court, he is replaced through the supernumerary
appointment of a magistrate from the next lower rank.
He shall enjoy a salary equal to that of the Deputy-Attorney General of the Supreme Court, as well as the
corresponding pay raises and benefits.
He shall return to his position at the moment his mandate ends.
§ 2. The President is assisted in the discharge of his functions by a Vice-President appointed by the
House of Representatives among the permanent members mentioned in article 24, § 1, who belongs to a
native linguistic group different from that of the President.
The Vice-President fulfils his duties on a full-time basis and the provisions of § 1, paragraphs two and
four, are applicable to him.
Section 1, paragraphs three and five are applicable to the Vice-President if he is a magistrate. Whenever
the President has other engagements, the Vice-President takes over his duties.
Art 27. Prior to accepting their mandate, the President, the Vice-President, the other permanent
members and the substitute members take the following oath administered by the President of the House
of Representatives: "I swear to fulfil the duties of my mission conscientiously and impartially."
Art 28. The Commission for the Protection of Privacy must draw up its Rules of Procedure within a onemonth term following its establishment. The Rules shall be transmitted to the Federal Parliament.
The Commission's deliberations are only legitimate when at least a majority of commissioners is present
during its meetings. It takes decisions by absolute majority. In case of a tie, the President, or in his
absence his substitute, has the casting vote.
22

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 29. § 1. The Commission issues its opinion either of its own accord, or at the request of the
Government, the Federal Parliament, the Community or Regional Governments, the Community or
Regional Parliaments, the United Board or the United Assembly referred to in article 60 of the special Act
of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels Institutions, or an oversight committee, on any matter relating to the
application of the fundamental principles of the protection of privacy, in the context of this Act and any
act containing provisions relating to the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal
data.
§ 2. Any request shall be submitted to the Commission by registered letter.
Unless otherwise prescribed by law, the Commission shall issue its opinion within a period of sixty days
following the communication of all necessary information to the Commission.
§ 3. In cases requiring the Commission's opinion by virtue of an act, decree or ordinance, this
requirement may be waived if the opinion was not issued within the period of time referred to in
section 2. In cases requiring the Commission's opinion by a provision of this Act, except for article 11, the
period of time referred to in § 2 is reduced to a minimum of fifteen days in cases involving special urgent
grounds.
§ 4. The Commission's opinions are supported with reasons.
§ 5. The Commission shall communicate its opinion to the requesting public authority.
A copy of the opinion is transmitted to the Minister of Justice.
In cases requiring the Commission's opinion, it shall be published in the Belgian Official Journal along
with the regulatory provision to which it relates.
Art 30. § 1. The Commission may make recommendations either of its own accord, or at the request of
the Government, the Federal Parliament, the Community or Regional Governments, the Community or
Regional Parliaments, the United Board or the United Assembly referred to in article 60 of the special Act
of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels Institutions, or an oversight committee, on any matter relating to the
application of the fundamental principles of the protection of privacy, in the context of this Act and any
laws containing provisions regarding the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal
data.
§ 2. Prior to making a recommendation to a specific controller, the Commission shall provide the
controller with the opportunity to explain his point of view.
23

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 3. The Commission's recommendations are supported with reasons. A copy of each recommendation is
transmitted to the Minister of Justice.
Art 31. § 1. Without prejudice to any claim brought before a court and unless otherwise prescribed by
law, the Commission investigates the signed and dated complaints it receives. These complaints may
concern its duties regarding the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data, or
other duties that have been conferred upon it by law.
§ 2. Proceedings are regulated in the Rules of Procedure. These rules provide for the exercise of a right
of defence.
§ 3. The Commission examines the admissibility of the complaint. If the complaint is admissible, the
Commission shall fulfil any mission of mediation it sees fit. If an amicable settlement between parties is
reached respecting privacy, the Commission drafts a report explaining the solution that has been
reached. If the parties concerned cannot settle, the Commission shall issue an opinion on the legitimacy
of the complaint. It may decide to add recommendations for the controller to the opinion.
§ 4. The Commission's decisions, opinions and recommendations are supported with reasons.
§ 5. The Commission communicates its decision, opinion or recommendation to the complainant, the
controller and any other party involved in the proceedings. A copy of the decision, opinion or
recommendation is transmitted to the Minister of Justice.
Art 31bis. § 1. The law establishes Sector Committees within the Commission. These committees are
authorized to examine requests concerning the processing or the disclosure of data subject to special
laws, and to come to a decision on the case in question within the legally determined boundaries.
§ 2. Without prejudice to article 37 of the Act of 15 January 1990 establishing and organizing a

Crossroads Bank of Social Security, every Sector Committee consists of three permanent or substitute
members of the Commission, among them the President or a member appointed as President by the
Commission, as well as three external members appointed by the House of Representatives in accordance
with the conditions and further rules stipulated by the special legislation organizing the Committee in
question. In case of a tie, the President has the casting vote.
The highest-ranked civil servant of the managing institution for the sector in question may be invited to
take part in the meetings of the Committee with an advisory vote.
24

Unofficial Translation July 2013

§ 3. The Commission shall send the requests it has received concerning the processing or the
communication of data regulated by special legislation, to the competent Sector Committee, if any such
committee has been established, and to the managing institution of the sector concerned. To the extent
the dossier is complete, the latter shall transmit a technical and legal opinion to the Committee within
fifteen days of receipt of the request. Under the same reservations, the Committee shall decide within
thirty days of receipt of the opinion or when the fifteen-day term has expired. Otherwise its decision shall
be considered as corresponding with the technical and legal opinion of the managing institution.
In case a request as described in the previous paragraph has to be treated for urgent reasons and within
a shorter period of time than the one stipulated in that paragraph, the President shall transmit the
request, the technical and legal opinion, and the draft decision to the members as soon as possible. The
members are then requested to inform the President of their views concerning the draft decision within
such period as determined by the President.
The draft decision shall only be final if none of the members raise an objection with regard to the
essential elements of the decree, within the period determined by the President. If necessary, the
President shall convene an extraordinary meeting of the Sector Committee. In consultation with the
highest-ranked civil servant of the institution concerned, the President shall verify the existence of urgent
reasons justifying the application of the two previous paragraphs. Without prejudice to article 44 of the
Act of 15 January 1990, the President of the Committee may suspend the examination of the dossier in
order to transmit it to the Commission, which shall come to a decision within one month.
§ 4. Any person assuming the Presidency of a section is entitled to a double attendance fee, except if
that person is the President or the Vice-President of the Commission.
§ 5. Without prejudice to article 41 of the Act of 15 January 1990, the Sector Committees are located at
the Commission's main offices, where their meetings take place, except if the managing institution in
question requests for the committee it works under to be located and to meet at its own offices.
The Commission may grant this request, on the condition that the managing institution ensures in
advance that the offices and office equipment necessary for the proper functioning of the committee and
its Presidency, as well as a Secretary selected by the Presidency in consultation with the highest-ranked
civil servant of the institution in question, and specialized staff, notably legal advisors and IT specialists,
are made available to the President, to the extent that this is necessary for the proper fulfilment of the
Sector Committee's duties. The President of the Sector Committee is responsible for staff performance for
this Committee.

25

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 32. § 1 The Commission may call upon the assistance of experts to carry out its functions. It may
instruct one or more of its members, accompanied by an expert if necessary, to carry out on-site
investigations.
In that case commissioners shall have the status of Officers of Judicial Police – Assistant Officers of the
Public Prosecutor.
They may demand, among other things, the disclosure of any documents that may be of use for their
investigation.
They shall also have access to all places they may reasonably suppose to be the location for activities
relating to the application of this Act.
§ 2. Unless otherwise described by law, the Commission shall inform the Public Prosecutor of any offence
it is aware of.
The Commission shall submit an annual activity report to the Federal Parliament.
This report, which is public, shall contain general information on the application of this Act and on the
Commission's activities, as well as specific information on the application of articles 3, §§ 3 and 6, 13, 17
and 18.
§ 3. Without prejudice to the competence of regular courts and tribunals regarding the application of the
general principles concerning the protection of privacy, the President of the Commission may submit any
dispute relating to the application of this Act and its corresponding measures to the Court of First
Instance.
Art 32bis. § 1. With a view to the application of international treaties, the King may appoint the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy by decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, to carry
out, by virtue of those treaties, functions identical to those assigned to the Commission by this Act.
§ 2. With a view to the application of international treaties the Commission for the Protection of Privacy is
authorized to appoint some of its commissioners or members of staff as representatives for international
authorities who are in charge of functions identical to those assigned to the Commission by this Act.
The King shall establish specific rules relating to such representation, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
Art 33. Without prejudice to article 32, § 2, commissioners and members of staff, as well as experts
whose assistance has been requested, are bound to secrecy regarding the nature of the facts, the actions
or the information they have become aware of in the discharge of their functions.
26

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 34. Without prejudice to the competence of the House of Representatives to examine and approve
the detailed budget of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, and to supervise its execution as well
as to verify and approve detailed accounts, the credits for such budget shall be allocated from the
general state budget.
In addition to its budget proposal the Commission shall submit a summary management plan, the form
and content of which it shall determine without prejudice to the observations of the House of
Representatives; the annual activity report referred to in article 32, § 2, paragraph two, shall include a
section describing the follow-up of such plan.
[…] (repealed)
Art 35. § 1. The Commission shall have a secretariat at its disposal, the level of staffing, the statute and
the recruitment of which are prescribed by the House of Representatives, by the proposal of the
Commission. The level of staffing shall allow for the possibility to hire employees with a fixed-term
contract, to a restricted and reasonably justified extent.
Secretariat staff shall be subject to the legal and statutory provisions applicable to appointed civil
servants, unless the Commission, with a view to the proper functioning of its services, decides otherwise
by an order approved by the House of Representatives.
§ 2. Members of staff employed by the Commission at the time the Act of 26 February 2003 amending

the Act of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data
and the Act of 15 January 1990 establishing and organizing a Crossroads Bank of Social Security, which
modifies the status of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and increases its competences, come
into force, shall retain their function and statute until the measures taken pursuant to § 1 are approved.
If the civil servants, as a result of the designations in accordance with these measures, are not
transferred, they shall return by law to the services of the Federal Public Service of Justice, with
according statutes applicable.
Art 36. The President shall be entitled to a remuneration equal to the salary of an investigating
magistrate with nine years of seniority in a Court having jurisdiction over a district of at least 500,000
inhabitants.
The substitute President, the substitute Vice-President and the permanent or substitute members shall be
entitled to an attendance fee that shall amount to EUR 223.18 (index 1.2682). The amount shall be
linked to the evolution of the consumer price index.
They shall be entitled to allowances for travel and accommodation in accordance with the provisions
applicable to the staff of the ministries. Any person who does not belong to the administration or whose
grade has not been ranked shall be regarded as a civil servant of rank 13.
27

Unofficial Translation July 2013

The President shall be regarded as a civil servant of rank 17.
Experts whose assistance has been demanded by the Commission or who assist commissioners in their
on-site investigations, can be remunerated in the manner determined by the Minister of Justice in
deliberation with the Ministers of the Civil Service and the Budget.
The remuneration referred to in paragraph one shall be linked to the mobility regulations applicable to
the salary of civil servants on active duty.

Chapter VIIbis - Sector Committees
Art 36bis. Within the Commission for the Protection of Privacy a Sector Committee for the Federal
Government shall be established within the meaning of article 31bis. The Federal Public Service for
Information and Communication Technology shall be considered as the managing institution for the
Sector Committee for the Federal Government referred to in article 31bis.
By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers the King shall determine the conditions and further
rules with which the three external members of the Sector Committee for the Federal Government must
comply.
Except for cases determined by the King, any electronic disclosure of personal data by a Federal Public
Service or a public institution with a legal personality that is under the jurisdiction of the Federal
Government, shall require an authorization of principle by this Sector Committee, unless the disclosure is
already subject to an authorization of principle of another Sector Committee established within the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
Prior to granting its authorization, the Sector Committee for the Federal Government shall check whether
the disclosure complies with legal and regulatory provisions.
Once the authorizations granted by the Sector Committee for the Federal Government have become final,
they shall be public. They shall be published on the website of the Commission for the Protection of
Privacy.
The highest-ranked civil servant of the Federal Public Service or of the public institution with a legal
personality that is under the jurisdiction the Federal Government, or a member of staff designated by
him, can take part in the meetings of the Sector Committee for the Federal Government with an advisory
vote.

Chapter VIII – Penalties

28

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 37. Any commissioner or member of staff of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy or any
expert who has violated the obligation of secrecy referred to in article 33 shall be punished with a fine of
two hundred euros to ten thousand euros.
Art 38. Any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee who does not comply with the
obligations laid down in articles 15 or 16, § 1 shall be punished with a fine of one hundred euros to
twenty thousand euros.
Art 39. A fine of one hundred euros to one hundred thousand euros shall be imposed on:
1° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee processing personal data in violation of
the conditions imposed by article 4 § 1;
2° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee processing personal data in cases
other than those in article 5;
3° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee processing personal data in violation of
articles 6, 7 and 8;
4° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee having failed to comply with the duties
imposed by article 9;
5° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee having failed to communicate the
information referred to in article 10, § 1 within forty-five days of receipt of the request, or who knowingly
communicates incorrect or incomplete information;
6° any person who resorts to acts of violence, force, threats, donations or promises with the purpose of
forcing another person into disclosing information that was obtained through the exercise of the right
defined in article 10, § 1, or with the purpose of obtaining the other person's consent for the processing
of personal data relating to that person;
7° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee having started, managed, continued to
manage or terminated the automatic processing of personal data without meeting the requirements of
article 17;
8° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee having communicated incomplete or
incorrect information in the notifications imposed by article 17;
9° […] (repealed)
10° any controller, his representative in Belgium, agent or assignee who, in violation of article 19, refuses
to communicate to the Commission information relating to a non-automatic processing operation of
personal data that forms part of a filing system or that is intended to form part thereof;
11° […] (repealed)

29

Unofficial Translation July 2013

12° any person who transfers personal data or has personal data transferred to a country outside the
European Community included in the list referred to in article 21, § 2, or any person who authorizes such
transfers despite the requirements of article 22;
13° any person who prevents the Commission, its commissioners or its experts from proceeding with the
investigation referred to in article 32.
Art 40. Upon conviction for any of the offences described in articles 38 or 39, the court can order the
entire or partial publication of the judgment in one or more newspapers in the manner it shall determine,
and at the expense of the convicted person.
Art 41. § 1. Upon conviction for any of the offences described in article 39, the judge can pronounce the
seizure of the media containing the personal data to which the offence relates, such as manual filing
systems, magnetic discs or magnetic tapes, except for computers or any other equipment, or he can
order the erasure of the data.
Seizure or erasure can also be ordered even if the media containing the personal data do not belong to
the person convicted.
Article 8, § 1 of the Act of 29 June 1964 on suspension, postponement and probation, applies neither to
the seizure, nor to the erasure ordered in accordance with paragraphs one and two.
The objects seized shall be destroyed when the judgment has become final.
§ 2. Without prejudice to the revocation of competences laid down in particular provisions, the Court can,
upon conviction for an offence mentioned in article 39, impose a prohibition to manage any processing of
personal data, directly or through an intermediary, for a maximum of two years.
§ 3. Any violation of the prohibition laid down in § 2 or any recidivism relating to the offences referred to
in articles 37, 38 and 39, shall be punished with a three-month to two-year imprisonment and/or with a
fine of one hundred euros to one hundred thousand euros.
Art 42. The controller or his representative in Belgium shall be liable under civil law for the payment of
the fines incurred by his agent or assignee.
Art 43. All provisions of Book I of the Belgian Criminal Code, including Chapter VII and article 85, apply
to the offences described by this Act or its implementing decrees.

Chapter IX - Final provisions
30

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 44. By decree after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy, the King can establish further rules with regard to the
application of the provisions of this Act, in order to take into account the specifics of different sectors.
Professional associations and other organizations representing categories of controllers who have drawn
up draft codes of conduct or who intend to modify or extend existing codes of conduct, can submit these
codes to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
More specifically, the Commission shall verify that the drafts submitted to it are in accordance with this
Act and its implementing decrees, and investigate the points of view of the parties concerned or of their
representatives to the extent that it is practical.
Art 45. The King can appoint the public authorities that shall order, in times of war or in times that are
regarded as equivalent thereto in accordance with article 7 of the Act of 12 May 1927 on Military Claims,
as well as during the occupation of the Belgian territory by the enemy, the destruction of the data
processed, or order the public authorities to destroy the data themselves.
The King can also determine the amounts of the compensation for the destruction referred to in the
previous paragraph.
Any person violating or making unlawful use of the decrees implementing the first paragraph, or abusing
the right of destruction laid down in it, shall be punished with a fine of one hundred euros to one
hundred thousand euros.
Art 46. In article 580, 14° of the Belgian Code of Civil Proceedings, for "and those referred to in article
587, 3°" there is substituted "and those referred to in article 14 of the Act of… on the protection of
privacy in relation to the processing of personal data.".
Art 47. In article 587 of this Code the following amendments have been made:
(…)
Art 48. In article 5, paragraph two of the Act of 8 August 1983 establishing a national register of natural

persons, amended by the Acts of 15 January 1990 and 19 July 1991, for "having received the opinion of
the Commission referred to in article 12" there is substituted "having received the opinion of the
Commission for the Protection of Privacy established by the Act of … on the protection of privacy with
regard to the processing of personal data."
Art 49. In the Belgian Act of 15 January 1990 establishing and organizing a Crossroads Bank of Social

Security the following is amended:
(…)
31

Unofficial Translation July 2013

Art 50. Article 25 of the Act coordinated on 16 March 1968 on the road traffic police, cancelled by the
Act of 9 July 1976 and reintroduced by the Act of 18 July 1990, is amended as follows:
(…)
Art 51. In the Act of 12 June 1991 on consumer credit, the following amendments have been made:
(…)
Art 52. Every provision of this Act shall enter into force on the date established by the King and at the
latest on the first day of the twenty-fourth month following the publication of this Act in the Belgian
Official Journal.
The King shall determine the period of time for the person keeping a filing system to comply with the
provisions of this Act for data processing operations in place at the moment the provisions of the Act
enter into force.

32

