1 9 - 0 0 2 1

Amdt. #

I

November 4, 2019

RECEIVED

VIA MESSENGER
Office of the Attorney General
1300 " I" Street, 17th Floor
Sacramento, CA 95814

NOV 13 2019
INITIATIVE COORDINATOR
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE

Attention: Initiative Coordinator
Re:

Submission ofAmendments to The California Privacy Rights and Enforcement
Act of 2020, Version 3, No. 19-0021, and Request to Prepare Circulating Title
and Summary (Amendment)

Dear Initiative Coordinator:
On October 9, 2019, I submitted a proposed statewide initiative titled " The California
Privacy Rights and Enforcement Act of 2020," Version 3 ("Initiative") and submitted a request that
the Attorney General prepare a circulating title and summary pursuant to section 10(d) of Article II
of the California Constitution.
Pursuant to Elections Code section 9002(b), I hereby submit timely amendments to
the text of the Initiative. As the proponent of the Initiative, I approve the submission of the amended
text to the Initiative and I declare that the amendment is reasonably germane to the theme, purpose,
and subject of the Initiative. I respectfully request that the Attorney General prepare a circulating
title and summary using the amended Initiative (Amendment).
Sincerely,

Alastair Mactaggart
Enclosures
(00393930)

Amendments to Version 3
THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS ACT OF 2020

Table of Contents
Section 1:

Title: The California Privacy Rights Act of 2020

Section 2:

Findings and Declarations

Section 3:

Purpose and Intent
A,
8,

C.

Consumer Rights
The Responsibility of Businesses
Implementation of the Law

Section 4:

General Duties of Businesses that Collect Consumers' Personal Information

Section 5:

Consumers' Right to Delete Personal Information

Section 6:

Consumers' Right to Correct Inaccurate Personal Information

Section 7:

Consumers' Right to Know What Personal Information is Being Collected. Right
to Access Personal Information. Right to Know If Businesses Are Using Personal
Information

Section B:

Consumers' Right to Know What Personal Information Is Sold and to Whom

Section 9:

Consumers' Right to Opt-Out of Sale or Sharing of Personal Information

Section 10:

Con.rnmers' Right to Limit Use of Sensitive Personal Information

Section 11:

Consumers' Right of No Retaliation Following Opt-Out or Exercise of Other
Rights

Section 12:

Notice, Disclosure, Correction, and Deletion Requirements

Section 13:

Methods of Limiting Sale, Sharing, and Use of Consumers' Personal Information
and Sensitive Personal Information

Section 14:

Definitions

Section 15:

Exemptions

Section 16:

Personal Information Security Breaches

Section 17:

Administrative Enforcement

Section 18:

Consumer Privacy Fund

Section 19:

Conflicting Provisions

Section 20:

Preemption

Section 21:

Regulations

Section 22:

Anti-Avoidance

Section 23:

Waiver
1

Amendments to Version 3

Section 24:

Establishment of California Privacy Protection Agency

Section 25:

Amendment

Section 26:

Severabil/ty

Section 27:

Canfllctlng Initiatives

Section 28:

Standing

Section 29:

Construction

Section 30:

Savings Clause

Section 31:

Effective and Operative Dates

2

Amendments to Version 3
SEC, 1, Title.

This measure shall be known and may be cited as "The California Privacy Rights Act of 2020."
SEC. 2. Findings and Declarations.

The People of the State of California hereby find and declare all of the following:
A. In 1972, California voters amended .the California Constitution to include the right of privacy
among the "Inalienable" rights of all people. Voters acted in response to the accelerating
encroachment on personal freedom and security caused by increased data collection and usage
in contemporary society. The amendment established a legal and enforceable constitutional
right of privacy for every Californian. Fundamental to this right of privacy is the ability of
individuals to control the use, including the sale, of their personal information.
B. Since California voters approved the constitutional right of privacy, the California Legislature
has adopted specific mechanisms to safeguard Californians' privacy, including the Online Privacy
Protection Act, the Privacy Rights for California Minors in the Digital World Act, and Shine the
Light, but consumers had no right to learn what personal information a business had collected
about them and how they used it or to direct businesses not to sell the consumer's personal
Information.
C. That changed in 2018, when more than 629,000 California voters signed petitions to qualify
the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 for the ballot. In response to the measure's
qualification, the Legislature enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA) into
law. The CCPA gives California consumers the right to learn what information a business has
collected about them, to delete their personal information, to stop businesses from selling their
personal information, including using It to target them with ads that follow them as they browse
the internet from one website to another, and to hold businesses accountable if they do not
take reasonable steps to safeguard their personal information.
D. Even before the CCPA had gone Into effect, the Legislature considered many bills In 2019 to
amend the law, some of which would have significantly weakened It. Unless California voters
take action, the hard-fought rights consumers have won could be undermined by future
legislation.
E. Rather than diluting privacy rights, California should strengthen them over time. Many
businesses collect and use consumers' personal information, sometimes without consumers'
knowledge regarding the business's use and retention of their personal information. In practice,
consumers are often entering Into a form of contractual arrangement In which while they do not
pay money for a good or service, they exchange access to that good or service In return for
access to their attention, or access to their personal information. Because the value of the
personal information they are exchanging for the good or service is often opaque, depending on
the practices of the business, consumers often have no good way to value the transaction. In
addition, the terms of agreement or policies In which the arrangements are spelled out, are
often complex, unclear, and as a result most consumers never have the time to read or
understand them.
F. This asymmetry of information makes It difficult for consumers to understand what they are
exchanging and therefore to negotiate effectively with businesses. Unlike In other areas of the
economy where consumers can comparison shop, or can understand at a glance if a good or
3

Amendments to Version 3
service Is expensive or affordable, it is hard for the consumer to know how much his or her
Information Is worth to any given business, when data use practices vary so widely between
businesses,
G. The State therefore has an Interest In mandating laws that will allow consumers to
understand more fully how their information is being used, and for what purposes. In the same
way that Ingredient labels on foods help consumers shop more effectively, disclosure around
data management practices will help consumers become more informed counterparties In the
data economy, and promote competition, Additionally, if a consumer can tell a business not to
sell his or her data, then that consumer will not have to scour a privacy policy to see whether
the business Is, In fact, selling that data, and the resulting savings in time Is worth, in the
aggregate, a tremendous amount of money.
H. Consumers need stronger laws to place them on a more equal footing when negotiating with
businesses in order to protect their rights, Consumers should be entitled to a clear explanation
of the uses of their personal Information, Including how it is used for advertising, and to control,
correct, or delete it, Including by allowing consumers to limit businesses' use of their sensitive
personal information to help guard against identity theft, to opt-out of the sale and sharing of
their personal Information, and to request that businesses correct inaccurate information about
them.
I, California Is the world leader in many new technologies that have reshaped our society. The
world today is unimaginable without the internet, one of the most momentous inventions in
human history, and the new services and businesses that arose on top of it -- many of which
were Invented here in California. One of the most successful business models for the internet
has been services that rely on advertising to make money as opposed to charging consumers a
fee. Advertising-supported services have existed for generations, and can be a great model for
consumers and businesses alike. However, some advertising businesses today use technologies
and tools that are opaque to consumers to collect and trade vast amounts of personal
information, to track them across the internet, and to create detailed profiles of their individual
interests. Some companies that do not charge consumers a fee, subsidize these services by
monetizing consumers' personal Information. Consumers should have the information and tools
necessary to limit the use of their information to non-invasive, pro-privacy advertising, where
their personal information is not sold to or shared with hundreds of businesses they've never
heard of, If they choose to do so. Absent these tools, it will be virtually Impossible for
consumers to fully understand these contracts they are essentially entering Into when they
interact with various businesses.
J, Children are particularly vulnerable from a negotiating perspective with respect to their
privacy rights. Parents should be able to control what Information is collected and sold or
shared about their young children and should be given the right to demand that companies
erase information collected about their children,

K. Business should also be held directly accountable to consumers for data security breaches
and notify consumers when their most sensitive information has been compromised,
L. An independent watchdog whose mission is to protect consumer privacy should ensure that

businesses and consumers are well-informed about their rights and obligations and should
vigorously enforce the law against businesses that violate consumers' privacy rights.

4

Amendments to Version 3
SEC. 3. Purpose and Intent.

In enacting this Act, It is the purpose and intent of the people of the State of California to further
protect consumers' rights, including the constitutional right of privacy. The implementation of
this Act shall be guided by the following principles:
A, Consumer Rights

1. Consumers should know who is collecting their personal Information and that of their
children, how It is being used, and to whom It is disclosed, so that they have the information
necessary to exercise meaningful control over businesses' use of their personal information and
that of their children,
2. Consumers should be able to control the use of their personal information, Including limiting
the use of their sensitive personal Information, the unauthorized use or disclosure of which
creates a heightened risk of harm to the consumer, and they should have meaningful options
over how it Is collected, used, and disclosed.
3. Consumers should have access to their personal information and should be able to correct It,
delete it, and take it with them from one business to another.
4. Consumers or their authorized agents should be able to exercise these options through easily
accessible self-serve tools.

s. Consumers should be able to exercise these rights without being penalized for doing so.
6. Consumers should be able to hold businesses accountable for falling to take reasonable
precautions to protect their most sensitive personal information from hackers and security
breaches.
7. Consumers should benefit from businesses' use of their personal information.
8. The privacy interests of employees and independent contractors should also be protected,
taking Into account the differences in the relationship between employees or independent
contractors and businesses, as compared to the relationship between consumers and
businesses. In addition, this law Is not intended to interfere with the right to organize and
collective bargaining under the National Labor Relations Act. It is the purpose and Intent of the
Act to extend the exemptions in this title for employee and business to business
communications until January 1, 2023.
B. The Responsibilities of Businesses

1, Businesses should specifically and clearly Inform consumers about how they collect and use
personal information and how they can exercise their rights and choice.
2. Businesses should only collect consumers' personal information for specific, explicit, and
legitimate disclosed purposes, and should not further collect, use, or disclose consumers'
personal information for reasons incompatible with those purposes.

5

Amendments to Version 3
3. Businesses should collect consumers' personal Information only to the extent that it is
relevant and limited to what Is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is being
collected, used, and shared.
4. Businesses should provide consumers or their authorized agents with easily accessible means
to allow consumers and their children to obtain their personal information, to delete it, or
correct it, and to opt-out of its sale and the sharing across business platforms, services,
businesses and devices, and to limit the use of their sensitive personal information.
5. Businesses should not penalize consumers for exercising these rights.
6. Businesses should take reasonable precautions to protect consumers' personal information
from a security breach.
7. Businesses should be held accountable when they violate consumers' privacy rights, and the
penalties should be higher when the violation affects chlldren.
C. Implementation of the Law
1. The rights of consumers and the responsibilities of businesses should be Implemented with
the goal of strengthening consumer privacy, while giving attention to the impact on business
and Innovation. Consumer privacy and the development of beneficial new products and
services are not necessarily incompatible goals. Strong consumer privacy rights create
Incentives to Innovate and develop new products that are privacy protective.

2. Businesses and consumers should be provided with clear guidance about their responsibilities
and rights.
3. The law should place the consumer in a position to knowingly and freely negotiate with a
business over the business' use of the consumer's personal information.
4. The law should adjust to technological changes, help consumers exercise their rights, and
assist businesses with compliance, with the continuing goal of strengthening consumer privacy.

s. The law should enable pro-consumer new products and services and promote efficiency of
Implementation for business, provided that the amendments do not compromise or weaken
consumer privacy.
6. The law should be amended, If necessary, to improve its operation, provided that the
amendments do not compromise or weaken consumer privacy, while giving attention to the
Impact on business and innovation.
7. Businesses should be held accountable for violating the law through vigorous administrative
and civil enforcement.
8. To the extent it advances consumer privacy and business compliance, the law should be
compatible with privacy laws in other jurisdictions.
0

6

Amendments to Version 3

SEC. 4. Section 1798.100 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.1.00. General Duties of Businesses that Collect Personal Information
1798.100. (a) A e0As1,m1er shall i'la11e the right to req1,1est tl'lat a b1,1siAess ti'lat eollects a
e0As1,1A1er's 13ers0Aal iAforAiatioA alselose to that e0As1,1A1er the categories aAa s13ecific i,ieces of
13ers0Aal iAforAiatioA the auslAess has eolleeted,
f&} A business that controls the collection of eolleets n consumer's personal information shall, at

or before the point of collection, Inform consumers as to:

(1.) the categories of personal information to be collected and the purposes for which the
categories of personal Information are collected or used shall he 1,1sea and whether such
Information is sold or shared. A business shall not collect additional categories of personal
Information or use personal information collected for additional purposes that are Incompatible
with the disclosed purpose for which the personal information was collected, without providing
the consumer with notice consistent with this section.

(2) if the business collects sensitive personal information, the categories of sensitive personal
Information to be collected and the purposes for which the categories of sensitive personal
Information are collected or used and whether such Information is sold or shared. A business
shall not collect additional categories of sensitive personal Information or use sensitive
personal information collected for additional purposes that are Incompatible with the
disclosed purpose for which the sensitive personal information was collected, without
providing the consumer with notice consistent with this section.
(3) the length of time the business intends to retain each category of personal Information,
including sensitive personal Information, or If that Is not possible, the criteria used to
determine such period, provided that a business shall not retain a consumer's personal
Information or sensitive personal information for each disclosed purpose for which the
personal information was collected for longer than is reasonably necessary for that disclosed
purpose.
(b) A business that, acting as a third party, controls the collection of personal Information
about a consumer may satisfy its obligation under subdivision (a) by providing the required
Information prominently and conspicuously on the homepage of Its Internet website. In
addition, If such business, acting as a third party, controls the collect/on of personal
information about a consumer on Its premises, Including in a vehicle, then the business shall,
at or before the point of collection, Inform consumers as to the categories of personal
Information to be collected and the purposes for which the categories of personal information
are used, and whether such personal information Is sold, In a clear and conspicuous manner at
such location.
(c) A business's collection, use, retention, and sharing of a consumer's personal Information
shall be reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve the purposes for which the
personal information was collected or processed, or for another disclosed purpose that Is
compatible with the context in which the personal information was collected, and not further
processed In a manner that is Incompatible with those purposes.
(d) A business that collects a consumer's personal Information and that sells that personal
information to, or shares It with, a third party or that discloses It to a service provider or
contractor for a business purpose shall enter into an agreement with such third party, service
provider, or contractor, that: (1) specifies that the personal Information Is sold or disclosed by
7

Amendments to Version 3

the business only for limited and specified purposes; (2) obi/gates the third party, service
provider, or contractor to comply with applicable obligations under this title and obligate
those persons to provide the same level of privacy protection as Is required by this title; {3)
grants the business rights ta take reasonable and appropriate steps to help to ensure thot the
third party, service provider, or contractor uses the personal Information transferred In a
manner consistent with the business's obilgations under this title; (4) requires the third party,
service provider, or contractor to notify the business if it makes a determination that it can no
longer meet Its obligations under this title; (5) grants the business the right, upon notice,
including under paragraph (4), to take reasonable and appropriate steps to stop and
remedlate unauthorized use of personal information.
(e) A business that collects a consumer's personal information shall Implement reasonable
security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the personal information to
protect the personal Information from unauthorized or illegal access, destruction, use,
modification, or disclosure In accordance with Section 1798,81.5,
(f} Nothing in this section shall require a business to disclose trade secrets, as specified In
regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.185.
{<:) A ausiAess si'lall flFO•Aae ti'le information speeified iA su&flivisioA (a) to a eoAsumer ORI'( upoA
receipt of a \'erifiable eoASl.lffier req1c1est.
(d) A busiAess ti'lat receiYes a verifiable OOAWmer reqwest from a conswmer to aecess personal
information shall flFOmfltl't' tal1e steps to diselose aAd deli•,er, free of ei'large to ti'le cons1,1mer,
ti'le personal inforrnatien reeiuired 13•, tl:lls sectioA. The lnformatloR ma•( be delivered by mall er
electroAieally, aml If flFevided electroAicall•t, the iAferrnatieA shall be IA a l')Ortalille anEI, to ti'le
entent teehAically feasillle, IA a readily 1,1seable fermat ti'lat allows ti'le eeAs1c1mer to transmit ticiis
iAforrnatien to aAeti'ler eAtity witho1,1t AiAElraAee. A business may i:iro•,•IEle flOFSOAal information
to a c0As1,1mer at aA•f time, b1,1t sl'lall Aet ae reeiuired to 11ro•;ide f)ersoRal IAfermatioA to a
eens1,1mer mere t1'laA twlee in a 12 moAth l')erioa.
(e) This seetion shall Rat reeiuire a business to retaiA aA't' personal iAformatioA eelleetea for a
siAgle, oAe time transaetieA, if suei'I iAformation is Rot sold er retaiAeEI by-tile b1,1siness or te
feleentify or otherwise liAlt lnformatioR that is Rot maintaiAea IA a mamier ti'lat waulEI lile
€9!¾idered f)ersoAal inforrnatien.

SEC, s. Section 1798.105 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.105. Consumers' Right to Delete Personal Information
1798.105. (a) A consumer shall have the right to request that a business delete any personal
information about the consumer which the business has collected from the consumer.
(b) A business that collects personal information about consumers shall disclose, pursuant to
Section 1798.130, the consumer's rights to request the deletion of the consumer's personal
Jnformation.
(c) {1} A business that receives a verifiable consumer request from a consumer to delete the
consumer's personal information pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section shall delete the
consumer's personal information from its records, and direct notify any service providers or
contractors to delete the consumer's personal information from their records, and notify all
third parties to whom the business has sold or shared such personal information, to delete the

8

Amendments to Version 3

consumer's personal information, unless this proves impossible or Involves disproportionate
effort.
(2) The business may maintain a confidential record of deletion requests solely for the purpose
of preventing the personal Information of a consumer who hos submitted a deletion request
from being sold, for compliance with laws, or for other purposes solely to the extent
permissible under this title.
(3) A service provider or contractor shall cooperate with the business In responding to a
verifiable consumer request, and at the direction of the business, shall delete, or enable the
business to delete, and shall notify any of its own service providers or contractors to delete,
personal Information about the consumer collected, used, processed, or retained by the service
provider or the contractor. The service provider or contractor shall notify any service
providers, contractors or third parties who may have accessed such personal Information from
or through the service provider or contractor, unless the Information was accessed at the
direction of the business, to delete the consumer's personal Information, unless this proves
impossible or involves disproportionate effort. A service provider or contractor shall not be
required to comply with a deletion request submitted by the consumer directly to the service
provider or contractor to the extent that the service provider or contractor hos collected, used,
processed, or retained the consumer's personol Information in Its role as a service provider or
contractor to the business.
(d) A business, or a service provider or contractor, acting pursuant to Its contract with the
business, another service provider, or another contractor, shall not be required to comply with
a consumer's request to delete the consumer's personal information if it is reasonably
necessary for the business, 0-f service provider, or contractor to maintain the consumer's
personal information in order to:

(1) Complete the transaction for which the personal information was collected, fulfill the terms
of a written warranty or product recall conducted In accordance with federal low, provide a
good or service requested by the consumer, or reasonably anticipated by the consumer within
the context of a business's ongoing business relationship with the consumer, or otherwise
perform a contract between the business and the consumer.
(2) 9eteet seeufit~• IRcieleAts, pfOtect agaiRst ffialicious, eleceptl·,e, frauduleAt, or illegal actMt·,1;
Of proseeute H1ose fespoAsible far H1at aetlvity-, Help to ensure security and integrity to the

extent the use of the consumer's personal information Is reasonably necessary and
proportionate for those purposes.
(3) Debug to identify and repair errors that Impair existing Intended functionality.
(4) Exercise free speech, ensure the right of another consumer to exercise !lis or her that
consumer's right of free speech, or exercise another right provided for by law.
(5) Comply with the California Electronic Communications Privacy Act pursuant to Chapter 3.6
(commencing with Section 1546) of Title 12 of Part 2 of the Penal Code.
(6) Engage in public or peer-reviewed scientific, historical, or statistical research iR the public
IRterest that conforms or adheres to all other applicable ethics and privacy laws, when the
busiAes~ business's deletion of the Information is likely to render impossible or seriously
impair the achleveffieAt of obi/lty to complete such research, if the consumer has provided
Informed consent.

9

Amendments to Version 3
(7) To enable solely internal uses that are reasonably aligned with the expectations of the
consumer based on the consumer's relationship with the business and compatible with the

context In which the consumer provided the Information.
(8) Comply with a legal obligation.

!9l Otherwise use the eonsuFRer's perscrnal inferFRation, inteFAall~•. in a lawf1c1I FRanner that is
eoFRpatillle with the eonte11t in whieh the eo11smner proYIEleel the inferFRatlon.
SEC. 6. Section 1798.106 ls added to the Civil Code to read:

1798.106. Consumers' Right to Correct Inaccurate Personal Information
1798.106 (a} A consumer shall have the right to request a business that maintains inaccurate
personal Information about the consumer correct such inaccurate personal Information, taking
into account the nature of the personal Information and the purposes of the processing of the
personal Information.
(b} A business that collects personal information about consumers shall disclose, pursuant to
Section 1798,130, the consumer's right to request correction of Inaccurate personal
Information.
(c} A business that receives a verlf/oble consumer request to correct inaccurate personal
Information shall use commerclally reasonable efforts to correct the Inaccurate personal
Information, as directed by the consumer, pursuant to Section 1798.130 and regulations
adopted pursuant to paragraph {8} of subdivision (a} of Section 1798.185.
SEC. 7. Section 1798.110 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.110. Consumers' Right to Know What Personal Information is Being Collected. Right to
Access Personal Information
1798.110. (a) A consumer shall have the right to request that a business that collects personal
information about the consumer disclose to the consumer the following:
(1) The categories of personal information it has collected about that consumer.
(2) The categories of sources from which the personal information is collected.
(3) The business or commercial purpose for collecting, Elf-Selling, or sharing personal
information.
(4) The categories of third parties wi#1 to whom the business 5llafe6 discloses personal
information.
!S) The specific pieces of personal information it has collected about that consumer.
(b) A business that collects personal Information about a consumer shall disclose to the
consumer, pursuant to subparagraph (BJ of paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.130,
the information specified in subdivision (a) upon receipt of a verifiable consumer request from
the consumer, provided that a business shall be deemed to be In compliance with paragraphs
(1} through (4} of subdivision (a} of this Section to the extent that the categories of

Information and the business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling or sharing
personal information It would be required to disclose to the consumer pursuant to paragraphs
10

Amendments to Version 3

(1} through {4} of subdivision (a} is the same as the Information It has disclosed pursuant to
paragraphs {1} through (4} of subdivision (c} of this Section.
(c) A business that collects personal information about consumers shall disclose, pursuant to
subparagraphs (B) of paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.130:
(1) The categories of personal Information it has collected about that cansumer consumers.
(2) The categories of sources from which the personal Information Is collected.
(3) The business or commercial purpose for collecting, Gf-selling, or sharing personal
Information.
(4) The categories of third parties wittt to whom the business 5AafeS discloses personal
Information.
(5) +he-That a consumer has the right to request the specific pieces of personal Information the
business has collected about that consumer.
(d) This sectlen dees not reeiwire a llwsiness to Ela the fellowing:
(1) Retain any ~ersonal information al3owt a cans1,1mer collected for a single eRe time
transaction if, In the oralnary cowrse ef awslness, that infcmiqatlan abaut the cansumer Is net
retalneel.
(2) Reielentif',• er otherwise link an'{ elata that, in the ordinary cowrse ef business, is not
maintained in a manner ti'lat wowlel lie considerea ~eFSanal lnferrnatlon.
SEC, 8. Section 1798,115 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.115, Consumers' Right to Know What Personal Information is Sold or Shared and to

Whom
1798.115. (a) A consumer shall have the right to request that a business that sells or shares the
consumer's personal information, or that discloses it for a business purpose, disclose to that
consumer:
(1) The categories of personal Information that the business collected about the consumer.
(2) The categories of personal information that the business sold or shared about the consumer
and the categories of third parties to whom the personal Information was sold or shared, by
category or categories of personal information for each category of third partv parties to whom
the personal information was sold or shared.
(3) The categories of personal information that the business disclosed about the consumer for a
business purpose and the categories of persons to whom It was disclosed for a business

purpose.
(bl A business that sells or shares personal information about a consumer, or that discloses a
consumer's personal information for a business purpose, shall disclose, pursuant to paragraph
(4) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.130, the information specified In subdivision (a) to the
consumer upon receipt of a verifiable consumer request from the consumer.

11

Amendments to Version 3
(c) A business that sells or shares consumers' personal Information, or that discloses consumers'
personal Information for a business purpose, shall disclose, pursuant to subparagraph (C) of
paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.130:
(1) The category or categories of consumers' personal information it has sold or shared, or if the
business has not sold or shared consumers' personal information, it shall disclose that fact.
(2) The category or categories of consumers' personal information It has disclosed for a business
purpose, or if the business has not disclosed tile consumers' personal Information for a business
purpose, It shall disclose that fact.
(d) A third party shall not sell or share personal information about a consumer that has been
sold to, or shared with, the third party by a business unless the consumer has received explicit
notice and Is provided an opportunity to exercise the right to opt-out pursuant to Section
1798.120.
SEC. 9. Section 1798.120 of the Civil Code Is amended to read:

1798.120, Consumers' Right to Opt-Out of Sale or Sharing of Personal Information
1798.120. (a) A consumer shall have the right, at any time, to direct a business that sells or
shares personal Information about the consumer to third parties not to sell or share the
consumer's personal information. This right may be referred to as the right to opt-out of sale or
sharing.
(bl A business that sells consumers' personal Information to, or shares It with, third parties shall
provide notice to consumers, pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1798.135, that this
information may be sold or shared and that consumers have the "right to opt-out" of the sale or
sharing of their personal information.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a business shall not sell or share the personal information of
consumers if the business has actual knowledge that the consumer is less than 16 years of age,
unless the consumer, In the case of consumers aetweeR at least 13 years of age and less than
16 years of age, or the consumer's parent or guardian, In the case of consumers who are less
than 13 years of age, has affirmatively authorized the sale or sharing of the consumer's personal
information. A business that willfully disregards the consumer's age shall be deemed to have
had actual knowledge of the consumer's age, TMs Figiclt FAa~• Ile FefeFFea to as ticle "rlgi'!t to OJ!t.
~

(d) A business that has received direction from a consumer not to sell or share the consumer's
personal information or, in the case of a minor consumer's personal information has not
received consent to sell or share the minor consumer's personal Information, shall be
prohibited, pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision W (c) of Section 1798.135, from selling or
sharing the consumer's personal information after Its receipt of the consumer's direction,
unless the consumer subsequently provides eiq~rnss awticloFi~atioo consent, for the sale or
sharing of the consumer's personal information.
SEC, 10, Section 1798.121 is added to the Civil Code to read:

1798.121. Consumers' Right to Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information
1798.121. (a} A consumer shall hove the right, at any time, to direct a business that collects
sensitive personal information about the consumer to limit its use of the consumer's sensitive
personal information to that use which is necessary to perform the services or provide the
12

Amendments to Version 3

goods reasonably expected by an average consumer who requests such goods or services, to
perform the services set forth in paragraphs (2J, {4J, (5), and {8J of subdivision (eJ of Section
1798.140, and as authorized by regulations adopted pursuant to subparagraph {CJ of
paragraph {19J of subdivision (aJ of Section 1798.185. A business that uses or discloses a
consumer's sensitive personal Information for purposes other than those specified in this
subdivision shall provide notice to consumers, pursuant to subdivision (aJ of Section 1798,135,
that this information may be used, or disclosed to a service provider or contractor, for
additional, specified purposes and that consumers have the right to limit the use or disclosure
of their sensitive personal information,
(bJ A business that has received direction from a consumer not to use or disclose the
consumer's sensitive personal information, except as authorized by subdivision (aJ, shall be
prohibited, pursuant to paragraph {4J of subdivision (cJ of Section 1798.1.35, from using or
disclosing the consumer's sensitive personal information for any other purpose after its receipt
of the consumer's direction, unless the consumer subsequently provides consent for the use or
disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal information for additional purposes.
(cJ A service provider or contractor that assists a business In performing the purposes
authorized by subdivision (aJ may not use the sensitive personal information, after it has
received instructions from the business and to the extent It has actual knowledge that the
personal Information Is sensitive personal Information for any other purpose. A service
provider or contractor is only required to limit its use of sensitive personal information
received pursuant to a written contract with the business In response to Instructions from the
business and only with respect to Its relationship with that business.
(dJ Sensitive Personal Information that is collected or processed without the purpose of
inferring characteristics about a consumer, is not subject to this Section, as further defined In
regulations adopted pursuant to subparagraph {CJ of paragraph {19J of subdivision (aJ of
Section 1798.185, and shall be treated as personal lnformaticm for purposes of all other
sections of this Act, including Section 1798.100.
SEC, 11, Section 1798,125 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.125. Consumers' Right of No Retaliation Following Opt-Out or Exercise of Other Rights
1798.125. (a) (1) A business shall not discriminate against a consumer because the consumer
exercised any of the consumer's rights under this title, Including, but not limited to, by:
(A) Denying goods or services to the consumer.
(B) Charging different prices or rates for goods or services, Including through the use of
discounts or other benefits or Imposing penalties.

(C) Providing a different level or quality of goods or services to the consumer.
(D) Suggesting that the consumer will receive a different price or rate for goods or services or a
different level or quality of goods or services.

(EJ Reta/lating against an employee, applicant for employment, ar independent contractor, as
defined In subparagraph (AJ of paragraph (2J of subdivision (mJ of Section 1798.145, for
exercising their rights under this title,

13

Amendments to Version 3
(2) Nothing In this subdivision prohibits a business, pursuant to subdivision (b}, from charging a
consumer a different price or rate, or from providing a different level or quality of goods or
services to the consumer, if that difference Is reasonably related to the value provided to the
00As1,1mer business by the consumer's data.

(3} This subdivision does not prohibit a business from offering loyalty, rewards, premium
features, discounts, or club card programs consistent with this title.
(b) (1) A business may offer financial incentives, including payments to consumers as
compensation, for the collection of personal information, the sale or sharing of personal
information, or the EleletioA retention of personal information. A business may also offer a
different price, rate, level, or quality of goods or services to the consumer if tbat price or
difference I~ elirectly reasonably related to the value provided to the G0As1,1mer business by the
consumer's data.
(2) A business that offers any financial Incentives pursuant to this subdivision {at, shall notify
consumers of the financial incentives pursuant to Section 1798.135 1.798.130.
(3) A business may enter a consumer Into a financial Incentive program only if the consumer
gives the business prior opt-in consent pursuant to Section 1798.135 l798.l30wtli€A that
clearly describes the material terms of the financial Incentive program, and which may be
revoked by the consumer at any time. If a consumer refuses to provide opt-In consent, then the

business shall wait for at least 12 months before next requesting that the consumer provide
opt-in consent, or as prescribed by regulations adopted pursuant to Section 1798,185.
(4) A business shall not use financial incentive practices that are unjust, unreasonable, coercive,
or usurious In nature.

SEC. 12. Section 1798.130 of the Civil Code ls amended to read:
1798.130. Notice, Disclosure, Correction, and Deletion Requirements
1798.130. (a) In order to comply with Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110,
1798.115, and 1798.125, a business shall, In a form that is reasonably accessible to consumers:

(1) (A} Make available to consumers two or more designated methods for submitting requests
for Information required to be disclosed pursuant to Sections 1798,110 and 1798.115, or
requests for deletion or correction pursuant to Sections 1798.105 and 1798.106, respectively,
Including, at a minimum, a toll-free telephone number, anEI if tl'le i:)t,Jsiness maintains an lntemet
Well site, a Well site aElElress. A business that operates exclusively online and has a direct

relationship with a consumer from whom It collects personal information shall only be
required to provide an email address for submitting requests for information required to be
disclosed pursuant to Sections 1798.1.10 and 1798.115, or for requests for deletion or
correction pursuant to Sections 1798.105 and 1798.106, respectively.
(BJ If the business maintains an internet website, make the internet website available to
consumers to submit requests for Information required to be disclosed pursuant to Sections
1798.110 and 1798.115, or requests for deletion or correction pursuant to Sections 1798,105
and 1798.106, respectively.
(2) (A} Disclose and deliver the required information to a consumer free of charge, or correct
inaccurate personal Information, or delete a consumer's personal Information, based on the
consumer's request, within 45 days of receiving a verifiable consumer request from the
consumer. The business shall promptly take steps to determine whether the request is a
14

Amendments to Version 3
verifiable consumer request, but this shall not extend the business's duty to disclose and deliver
the Information, or correct Inaccurate personal Information or delete personal information,
within 45 days of receipt of the consumer's request. The time period to provide the required
information, or to correct Inaccurate personal Information or delete personal Information, may
be extended once by an additional 45 days when reasonably necessary, provided the consumer
Is provided notice of the extension within the first 45-day period. The disclosure of the required
Information s"1all ee¼•er t"1e 12 meAtR 13erioa 13reeeEiiAg tile lmsiAess's reeel13t ef tile •1erlflallle
eoASllFAer reCctllest aAel shall be made In writing and delivered through the consumer's account
with the business, if the consumer maintains an account with the business, or by mail or
electronically at the consumer's option if the consumer does not maintain an account with the
business, In a readily useable format that allows the consumer to transmit this information from
one entity to another entity without hindrance. The business may require authentication of the

consumer that Is reasonable in light of the nature of the personal Information requested, but
shall not require the consumer to create an account with the business In order to make a
verifiable consumer request, provided that If the consumer has an account with the business,

the business may require the consumer to use that account to submit a verifiable consumer
request.
{8} The disclosure of the required information shall cover the 12-month period preceding the
business's receipt of the verifiable consumer request, provided that, upan the adoption of a
regulation pursuant to paragraph {9} of subdivision (a} of Section 1798,185, a consumer may
request that the business disclose the required information beyond the 12-month period and
the business shall be required to provide such Information unless doing so proves Impossible or
would Involve a disproportionate effort. A consumer's right to request required information
beyond the 12-month period, and a business's ob/lgation to provide such information, shall
only apply to personal Information collected on or after January 1, 2022. Nothing in this
subparagraph shall require a business to keep personal information for any length of time.
(3) (A} A business that receives a verifiable consumerrequest pursuant to sections 1798.110 or
1798,115 shall disclose any personal information It has collected about a consumer, directly or
Indirectly, including through or by a service provider or contractor, to the consumer. A service
provider or contractor shall not be required to comply with a verifiable consumer request
received directly from a consumer or a consumer's authorized agent pursuant to sections
1798,U0 or 1798,115 to the extent that the service provider or contractor has collected
personal information about the consumer In its role as a service provider or contractor. A
service provider or contractor shall provide assistance to a business with which It has a
contractual relationship with respect to the business's response to a verifiable consumer
request, Including but not limited to by providing to the business the consumer's personal
Information in the service provider or contractor's possession, which the service provider or
contractor obtained as a result of providing services to the business, and by correcting
Inaccurate information, or by enabling the business to do the same. A service provider or
contractor that collects personal information pursuant to a written contract with a business
shall be required to assist the business through appropriate technical and organizational
measures in complying with the requirements of subdivisions (d} through (f} of Section
1798,100, taking into account the nature of the processing,

{BJ For purposes of subdivision (b) of Section 1798.110:
(Ai) To identify the consumer, associate the information provided by the consumer in the
verifiable consumer request to any personal information previously collected by the business
about the consumer.

15

Amendments to Version 3
fB} (I,) Identify by category or categories the personal Information collected about the consumer
iR ti'le 13FeeediAg 12 meRtAs for the applicable period of time by reference to the enumerated
category or categories In subdivision (c) that most closely describes the personal information

collected; the categories of sources from which the consumer's personal information was

collected; the business or commercial purpose for collecting, or sel/lng or sharing the
consumer's personal information; and the categories of third parties to whom the business
discloses the consumer's personal information.
(Iii) Provide the specific pieces of personal information obtained from the consumer in a
format that is easily understandable to the average consumer, and to the extent technically
feasible, in a structured, commonly used, machine-readable format, which also may be
transmitted to another entity at the consumer's request without hindrance. "Specl/fc pieces of
information" do not include data generated to help ensure security and integrity or as
prescribed by regulation, Personal Information Is not considered to have been disclosed by a
business when a consumer Instructs a business to transfer the consumer's personal
information from one business to another in the context of switching services.
(4) For purposes of subdivision (b) of Section 1798.115:
(A) Identify the consumer and associate the Information provided by the consumer In the
verifiable consumer request to any personal Information previously collected by the business
about the consumer.
(B) Identify by category or categories the personal Information of the consumer that the
business sold or shared IA Uie preeediAg l2 maAtAS during the applicable period of time by
reference to the enumerated category In subdivision (c) that most closely describes the personal
Information, and provide the categories of third parties to whom the consumer's personal
Information was sold or shared iA ti'le JlFeeelliAg 12 manti'!s during the applicable period oft/me
by reference to the enumerated category or categories In subdivision (c) that most closely
describes the personal information sold or shared. The business shall disclose the information
in a list that ls separate from a 11st generated for the purposes of subparagraph (C).

(C) Identify by category or categories the personal information of the consumer that the
business disclosed for a business purpose IA the 13reeeEliAg 12 menths during the applicable
period oft/me by reference to the enumerated category or categories In subdivision (c) that
most closely describes the personal information, and provide the categories of ti'lirel flaFties
persons to whom the consumer's personal information was disclosed for a business purpose if\
ti'le pFeeeeling 12 menti'!s during the applicable period a/time by reference to the enumerated
category or categories in subdivision (c) that most closely describes the personal Information
disclosed. The business shall disclose the information in a list that Is separate from a list
generated for the purposes of subparagraph (B).
(5) Disclose the following Information in its online privacy policy or policies if the business has an
online privacy policy or policies and In any Callfornia-speclflc description of consumers' privacy
rights, or If the business does not maintain those policies, on its lntemet 1Nea site Internet
website, and update that information at least once every 12 months:
(A) A description of a consumer's rights pursuant to Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 1798,106,
1798.110, 1798.115, and 1798.125 and eRe two or more designated methods for submitting
requests, except as provided in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a).
(B) For purposes of subdivision (c) of Section 1798.110,: (i) a list of the categories of personal
information it has collected about consumers In the preceding 12 months by reference to the

16

Amendments to Version 3
enumerated category or categories in subdivision (c) that most closely describe the personal
Information collected; (Ii) the categories of sources from which consumers' personal
information is collected; (iii) the business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling or

sharing consumers' personal Information; and (iv) the categories of third parties ta whom the
business discloses consumers' personal information.
(C) For purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 1798.115, two separate
lists:
(i) A list of the categories of personal information It has sold or shared about consumers in the
preceding 12 months by reference to the enumerated category or categories In subdivision (c)
that most closely describe the personal Information sold or shared, or If the business has not
sold or shared consumers' personal information in the preceding 12 months, the business shall
prominently disclose that fact in Its privacy policy.
(II) A list of the categories of personal information it has disclosed about consumers for a
business purpose in the preceding 12 months by reference to the enumerated category in
subdivision (c) that most closely elessrille describes the personal information disclosed, or If the
business has not disclosed consumers' personal information for a business purpose In the
preceding 12 months, the business shall disclose that fact.
{6) Ensure that all individuals responsible for handling consumer Inquiries about the business's
privacy practices or the business's compliance with this title are Informed of all requirements in
Sections 1798,100, 1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.125, and this section, and
how to direct consumers to exercise their rights under those sections.

(7) Use any personal information collected from the consumer in connection with the business's
verification of the consumer's request solely for the purposes of verification, and shall not
further disclose the personal information, retain It longer than necessary for purposes of

verification, or use It for unrelated purposes.
(b) A business Is not obligated to provide the information required by Sections 1798.110 and
1798.115 to the same consumer more than twice in a 12-month period.
{c) The categories of personal Information required to be disclosed pursuant to Sections
1798.100, 1798.110 and 1798.115 shall follow the elefinltlan definitions of personal information
and sensitive personal Information in Section 1798.140 by describing the categories of

personal Information using the specific terms set forth in subparagraphs (A) through (K) of
paragraph (1) of subdivision (v) of Section 1798.140 and by describing the categories of
sensitive personal Information using the specific terms set forth In paragraphs (1) through (9)
of subdivision (ae) af Sect/an 1798.140.
SEC, 13. Section 1798.135 of the Civil Code Is amended to read:

1798.135. Methods of Limiting Sale, Sharing, and Use of Personal Information and Use of
Sensitive Personal Information
1798.135. {a) A business that is FC(l~ireel ta campl•t witll Section 1798.120 sells or shares
consumers' personal Information or uses or discloses consumers' sensitive personal
Information for purposes other than those authorized by subdivision (a) of Section 1798.121
shall, In a form that is reasonably accessible to consumers:
{1) Provide a clear and conspicuous link on the business's Internet internet homepage(s), titled
"Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information," to an We-Fnet 'Neb page internet webpage
17

Amendments to Version 3
that enables a consumer, or a person authorized by the consumer, to opt-out of the sale or
shoring of the consumer's personal Information.

(2) Provide o clear and conspicuous link on the business's internet homepoge(s), titled "Limit
the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information" that enables a consumer, or a person
authorized by the consumer, to limit the use or disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal
Information to those uses authorized by subdivision (a) of Section l798,121,
(3) At the business's discretion, utilize a single, clearly-labeled /Ink on the business's internet
homepage(s), In /leu of complying with paragraphs {1) and (2), If such link easily allows a
consumer ta opt-out of the sale or sharing of the consumer's personal Information and to limit
the use or disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal information.
(4} In the event that a business responds to opt-out requests received pursuant to paragraphs
(1}, (2), or (3} by Informing the consumer of a charge far the use of any product or service,
present the terms of any financial incentive offered pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
1798.125 for the retention, use, sale, or sharing of the consumer's personal information.
(b) (1) A business shall not be required to comply with subdivision (a) if the business allows
consumers to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their personal Information and to 1/mlt the use
of their sensitive personal information through an opt-out preference signal sent with the
consumer's consent by a platform, technology, or mechanism, based on technical
specifications set forth In regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph (20} of subdivision (a} of
Section 1.798,1.85, to the business Indicating the consumer's Intent to opt-out of the business's
sale or sharing of the consumer's personal information or to limit the use or disclosure of the
consumer's sensitive personal Information, or both.
{2} A business that allows consumers to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their personal
information and to limit the use of their sensitive personal information pursuant to paragraph
(1} may provide a link to a webpage that enables the consumer to consent to the business
Ignoring the apt-out preference signal with respect to that business's sale or sharing of the
consumer's personal Information or the use of the consumer's sensitive personal information
for additional purposes provided that: (A} the consent webpage also allows the consumer or a
person authorized by the consumer to revoke such consent as easily as It Is affirmatively
provided; (BJ the link to the webpage does not degrade the consumer's experience on the
webpage the consumer intends to visit and has a similar look, feel, and size relative to other
links on the same webpage; and (C} the consent webpage complies with technical
specifications set forth in regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph (20) of subdivision (a} of
Section 1798,185,
(3} A business that complies with subdivision (a} of this Section Is not required to comply with
subdivision (b), For the purposes of clarity, a business may elect whether to comply with
subdivision (a) or subdivision (b}.
(c} A business that Is subject to this Section shall:
(1} ootNot require a consumer to create an account or provide additional Information beyond
what is necessary in order to direct the business not to sell or share the consumer's personal
information or to limit use or disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal Information.
(2) Include a description of a consumer's rights pursuant to SeGa8ll Sections 1798.120 and
1798,121, along with.a separate link to the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information"
Internet webpage and a separate link IAternet Wee page to the "Limit the Use of My Sensitive
18

Amendments to Version 3

Personal Information" Internet webpage, if applicable, or a single link to both choices, or a
statement that the business responds to and abides by opt-out preference signals sent by a
platform, technology, or mechanism In accordance with subdivision (b}, In:
(A) Its online privacy policy or policies If the business has an online privacy policy or policies.
(B) Any California-specific description of consumers' privacy rights.
(3) Ensure that all Individuals responsible for handling consumer inquiries about the business's
privacy practices or the business's compliance with this title are informed of all requirements in
Section Sections 1798.120, 1798,121, and this section and how to direct consumers to exercise
their rights under those sections.
(4) For consumers who exercise their right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their personal
Information or limit the use or disclosure of their sensitive personal Information, refrain from
selling or sharing the consumer's personal information or using or disclosing the consumer's
sensitive personal Information collected lly Hie ll.isiness allout the eons.imer and wait for at

least 12 months before requesting that the consumer authorize the sale or sharing of the
consumer's personal information or the use and disclosure of the consumer's sensitive
personal information for additional purposes, or as authorized by regulations.
(5) For a consumer who has Ojlted-01,1t of the sale of the consumer's personal infermation,
respect Hie consumer's decision to opt out for at least 12 rnonti'ls llefure requesting tl'lat Hie
eonsllmer awthorize U,e sale of the eonsl!mer's ~ersonal information consumers under 1.6 years

of age who do not consent to the sale or sharing of their personal information, refrain from
selling or sharing the personal information of the consumer under 1. 6 years of age, and wait
for at least 12 months before requesting the consumer's consent again, or as authorized by
regulations or until the consumer attains 16 years of age.
(6) Use any personal information collected from the consumer In connection with the
submission of the consumer's opt-out request solely for the purposes of complying with the opt­
out request.

~(d) Nothing in this title shall be construed to require a business to comply with the title by
including the required links and text on the homepage that the business makes available to the
public generally, If the business maintains a separate and additional homepage that is dedicated
to California consumers and that includes the required links and text, and the business takes
reasonable steps to ensure that California consumers are directed to the homepage for
California consumers and not the homepage made available to the public generally.
fet-(e) A consumer may authorize another person wlel',' to opt-out of the sale or sharing of the
consumer's personal Information, and to limit the use of the consumer's sensitive personal
information, on the consumer's behalf, Including through an opt-out preference signal, as
defined In paragraph (l) of subdivision (b) of this Section, Indicating the consumer's intent to
opt-out, and a business shall comply with an opt-out request received from a person authorized
by the consumer to act on the consumer's behalf, pursuant to regulations adopted by the
Attorney General, regardless of whether the business has elected to comply with subdivision
(a) or (b} of this Section. For purposes of clarity, a business that elects to comply with

subdivision (a) of this Section may respond to the consumer's opt-out consistent with Section
1798,125.

(/) If a business communicates a consumer's opt-out request to any person authorized by the
business to collect personal information, the person shall thereafter only use such consumer's
19

Amendments to Version 3

personal Information for a business purpose specified by the business, or as otherwise
permitted by this title, and shall be prohibited from: (1) selling or sharing the personal
Information; or {2) retaining, using, or disclosing such consumer's personal Information: {A)
for any purpose other than for the specific purpose of performing the
services offered to the business, (B) outside of the direct business relationship between the
person and the business, or (CJ for a commercial purpose other than providing the services to
the business. .
(g) A business that communicates a consumer's opt-out request to a person pursuant to
subdivision (f) shall not be liable under this title If the person receiving the opt-out request
violates the restrictions set forth in the title, provided that, at the time of communicating the
opt-out request, the business does not have actual knowledge, or reason to believe, that the
person Intends to commit such a violation. Any provision of a contract or agreement of any
kind that purports to waive or limit In any way this subdivision shall be void and
unenforceable,
SEC. 14, Section 1798.140 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798,140. Definitions
1798.140. For purposes of this title:

(a) "Advertising and marketing" means a communication by a business or a person acting on
the business's behalf in any medium Intended to Induce a consumer to obtain goods, services,
or employment.
fat-(b) "Aggregate consumer information" means information that relates to a group or category

of consumers, from which individual consumer identities have been removed, that Is not linked
or reasonably linkable to any consumer or household, including via a device. "Aggregate
consumer Information" does not mean one or more Individual consumer records that have been
deidentifled.

thHcJ "Biometric Information" means an Individual's physiological, blologlcalor behavioral
characteristics, including information pertaining to an individual's deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA),
that eafl-8e Is used or intended to be used, singly or in combination with each other or with
other identifying data, to establish individual Identity. Biometric Information includes, but is not
limited to, imagery of the iris, retina, fingerprint, face, hand, palm, vein patterns, and voice
recordings, from which an identifier template, such as a faceprint, a minutiae template, or a
voiceprlnt, can be extracted, and keystroke patterns or rhythms, gait patterns or rhythms, and
sleep, health, or exercise data that contain Identifying Information.

fet-(d) "Business" means:
(1) A sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, association, or
other legal entity that is organized or operated for the profit or financial benefit of its
shareholders or other owners, that collects consumers' personal Information, or on the behalf
of which such information is collected and that alone, or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of the processing of consumers' personal Information, that does business
in the State of California, and that satisfies one or more of the following thresholds:
(A) As of January 1 of the calendar year, Has had annual gross revenues in excess of twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000) in the preceding calendar year, as adjusted pursuant to paragraph
(5) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.185.
20

Amendments to Version 3
(B) Alone or in combination, annually buys or, Feeelves foF tile euslAess's eammereial l')UFl')eses,
sells, or shares far eammercial flUFpases, alaRe aF iA eameiRatleA the personal information of
59;QGG 1.00,000 or more consumers or1 households, or eleviees.
(C) Derives 50 percent or more of Its annual revenues from selling, or sharing consumers'
personal Information.

(2) Any entity that controls or Is controlled by a business, as defined In paragraph (1), and that
shares common branding with the business and with whom the business shares consumers'
personal Information. "Control" or "controlled" means ownership of, or the power to vote,
more than 50 percent of the outstanding shares of any class of voting security of a business;
control In any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, or of Individuals exercising
similar functions; or the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management of a
company. "Common branding" means a shared name, servicemark, or trademark, such that the

average consumer would understand that two or more entities are commonly owned.
{3) A joint venture or partnership composed of businesses In which each business has at least a
40 percent interest. For purposes of this title, the joint venture or partnership and each
business that composes the joint venture or partnership shall separately be considered a single
business, except that personal information in the possession of each business and disclosed to
the Joint venture or partnership shall not be shared with the other business.
(4) A person that does business in California, that Is not covered by paragraphs (1), (2), or (3)
and that voluntarily certifies to the California Privacy Protection Agency that It Is In
compliance with, and agrees to be bound by, this title,
{l#-(e) "Business purpose" means the use of personal information for the business's er a servlee

pravider's operational purposes, or other notified purposes, or for the service provider or
contractor's operational purposes, as defined by regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph
(11} of subdivision (a) a/Section 1798,185, provided that the use of personal information shall
be reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve the ~FatiaAal purpose for which the
personal information was collected or processed or for another aperatieAal purpose that is .
compatible with the context in which the personal information was collected. Business
purposes are:
(1) Auditing related to a t!JFreAt IAteraetlaR witR tile €0ASUffler aRd €0AGUHeAt traASaetiOflS;
IRelueliAg, but Rat limltea te, counting ad impressions to unique visitors, verifying positioning
and quality ofad impressions, and auditing compliance with this specification and other
standards.

(2) DeteetiAg seeurity iAeieleRts, l')reteetiAg agaiAst malielaus, deeeptl•1e, fra1,1eluleRt, er illegal
aetl,,.ity, aRel proseeutlRg those resl')aAsiele far that activ-1-ty, Helping to ensure security and

Integrity to the extent the use of the consumer's personal Information Is reasonably necessary
and proportionate for these purposes.
(3) Debugging to identify and repair errors that Impair existing intended functionality.
(4) Short-term, transient use, including but not limited to non-personal/zed advertising shown
as part of a consumer's current Interact/on with the business, provided that the consumer's
personal Information t-Aiff is not disclosed to another third party and is not used to build a
profile about a the consumer or otherwise alter aR iRalvidual the consumer's experience outside
the current interaction with the business., inelualAg, but Aet liFAlted te, the e0Ate11tual
eustemi,atleA af aels sllowA as 13aFt of tile same iRteraetioA.

21

Amendments to Version 3
(5) Performing services on behalf of the business, or scrviee riro•,•ldcr, including maintaining or
servicing accounts, providing customer service, processing or fulfilling orders and transactions,
verifying customer information, processing payments, providing financing, r,irevlellng ael•,•ertlsing
or rnarl1etlng serviees, providing analytic services, providing storage, or providing similar
services on behalf of the business or servlee flFOViller.

(6) Providing advertising and marketing services, except for cross-context behavioral
advertising, to the consumer, provided that for the purpose of advertising and marketing, a
service provider or contractor shall not combine the personal Information of opted-out
consumers which the service provider or contractor receives from or on behalf of the business
with personal Information which the service provider or contractor receives from or on behalf ·
of another person or persons, or collects from its own Interaction with consumers.
tf,)-(7) Undertaking internal research for technological development and demonstration.

f7t{B) Undertaking activities to verify or maintain the quality or safety of a service or device that

Is owned, manufactured, manufactured for, or controlled by the business, and to improve,
upgrade, or enhance the service or device that Is owned, manufactured, manufactured for, or
controlled by the business.

fet-(f) "Collects," "collected," or "collection" means buying, renting, gathering, obtaining,
receiving, or accessing any personal information pertaining to a consumer by any means. This
includes receiving information from the consumer, either actively or passively, or by observing
the consumer's behavior.
ff+-(g) "Commercial purposes" means to advance a person's commercial or economic interests,
such as by inducing another person to buy, rent, lease, join, subscribe to, provide, or exchange
products, goods, property, Information, or services, or enabling or effecting, directly or
indirectly, a commercial transaction, "Commercial 13urp&5e&'4i1c>-A<i¾l-ifleiu4*H'-t1i¾!-13¼119ilO>Se-o'f
eAgagiRg IA s~eeci'l ti'lat state or federal eourts have reeogRizea as ROAcornrnerelal srieech,
iRelueliRg riolitieal srieeeh aAEI jollmalisrn.

(h) "Consent" means any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the
consumer's wishes by which he or she, or his or her legal guardian, by a person who has power
of attorney or Is acting as a conservator for the consumer, such as by a statement or by a clear
affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal information relating to
him or her for a narrowly defined particular purpose. Acceptance of a general or broad terms
of use or similar document that contains descriptions of personal information processing along
with other, unrelated information, does not constitute consent. Hovering over, muting,
pausing, or closing a given piece of content does not constitute consent. Likewise, agreement
obtained through use of dark patterns does not constitute consent.
tf;)-(i) "Consumer" means a natural person who is a California resident, as defined in Section

17014 of Title 18 of the California Code of Regulations, as that section read on September 1,
2017, however Identified, including by any unique identifier.
(j) {1) "Contractor" means a person to whom the business makes available a consumer's

personal Information for a business purpose pursuant to.a written contract with the business,
provided that the contract:
(A) Prohibits the contractor from:
(i) Selllng or sharing the personal Information.
22

Amendments to Version 3

{Ii) Retaining, using, or disclosing the personal information for any purpose other than for the
business purposes specified in the contract, including retaining, using, or disclosing the
personal Information for a commercial purpose ather than the business purposes specified in
the contract, or as otherwise permitted by this title.
(iii) Retaining, using, or disclosing the Information outside of the direct business relationship
between the contractor and the business.
(Iv) Combining the personal information which the contractor receives pursuant to a written
contract with the business with personal Information which It receives from or on behalf of
another person or persons, or collects from Its own interaction with the consumer, provided
that the contractor may combine personal Information to perform any business purpose as
defined In regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph {lO) of subdivision (a) of Section
1798.l85, except as provided for In paragraph {6) of subdivision (e) of this Section and in
regulations adopted by the California Privacy Protection Agency,
(8) Includes a certification made by contractor that the contractor understands the restrictions
in subparagraph (A} and w/11 comply with them,
{C) Permits, subject to agreement with the contractor, the business to monitor the contractor's
compliance with the contract through measures Including, but not limited to, ongoing manual
reviews and automated scans, and regular assessments, audits, or other technical and
operational testing at least once every twelve {12) months,
(2) If a contractor engages any other person to assist It In processing personal information for
a business purpose on behalf of the business, or If any other person engaged by the contractor
engages another person to assist In processing personal information for such business
purpose, It shall notify the business of such engagement and the engagement shall be
pursuant to a written contract binding the other person to observe all the requirements set
forth in paragraph {l),
(k) "Cross-context behavioral advertising" means the targeting of advertising to a consumer
based on the consumer's personal Information obtained from the consumer's activity across
businesses, distinctly-branded websites, applications, or services, other than the business,
distinctly-branded website, application, or service with which the consumer intentionally
Interacts.
{I) "Dark pattern" means a user Interface designed or manipulated with the substantial effect
of subverting or impairing user autonomy, decision-making, or choice, as further defined by
regulation,
f/lt-(m) "Deidentified" means information that cannot reasonably be used to Infer information
about, or otherwise be linked to, a particular consumer, provided that the business that
possesses the information:
(A} takes reasonable measures to ensure that the Information cannot be associated with a
consumer or household;
{BJ publlcly commits to maintain and use the information in deidentifled form and not to
attempt to reldentify the Information, except that the business may attempt to reldentlfy the
information solely for the purpose of determining whether its deidentiflcation processes
satisfy the mquirements of this subdivision; and
23

Amendments to Version 3

(CJ contractually obligates any recipients of the Information to comply with all provisions of
this subdivision. IElentif>t, relate te, descrilile, be catialille of lleing asseeiated with, er be liAl1ea,
elirectl•,• or IAElirectly, to a partle.ilar ceAswmer, provided ti'lat a ll.isiAess ti'lat uses eleleleAtifleel
iAfermatlont
(1) Has imf)lemented technical safeguarEls that prehll3lt reidentificatioA of the consumer to
Wfl<lm the Information may pertain.
(2) Has implemented ln1siness precesses that SJiecifieall•( f)rehililit reiElentificatlen of the
infermatlon.
(3) Has im13lementeEI business 13reeesses ta iare•;ent inadvertent release of deiEientified
information.
(4) Mal1es no attemJ')t ta reiaentif>t the Information.
{1)-(n} "Designated methods for submitting requests" means a mailing address, email address,

Internet Well page Internet webpage, Internet 'Nee internet web portal, toll-free telephone
number, or other applicable contact information, whereby consumers may submit a request or
direction under this title, and any new, consumer-friendly means of contacting a business, as
approved by the Attorney General pursuant to Section 1798.185.

fff-{o} "Device" means any physical object that Is capable of connecting to the Internet, directly
or indirectly, or to another device.
(I() "Health insuranee·infermatien" means a eensumer's inswrance polley number er s.ibseFiber
identifieation number, an•,• .inleiue IElentlfier useel b~• a lclealtA Insurer to lelentify the cons.imer,
&Hny information in Ute consumer's application anel claims histor,•, including an•t appeals
reeords, If tAe information Is liAl1ed er reasonabl•,• linlrnlille to a cens.imer or houseiclola, inslmling
11-iii-a-Eie•;lee, 13y a business or service pre•,•ider.
{1)-(p} "Homepage" means the Introductory page of an Internet Web site internet website and

any Internet 'Neil page Internet webpage where personal Information Is collected. In the case
of an online service, such as a mobile application, homepage means the application's platform
page or download page, a link within the application, such as from the application configuration,
"About," "Information,'' or settings page, and any other location that allows consumers to .
review the ooti€e notices required by subdMsien (a) of SectioR 1798.1% this title, Including, but
not limited to, before downloading the application.

(q} "Household" means a group, however identified, of consumers who cohabltate with one
another at the same residential address and share use of common device(s} or servlce(s).
fm}(r} "Infer" or "inference" means the derivation of Information, data, assumptions, or
conclusions from facts, evidence, or another source of information or data.

(s} "Intentionally interacts" means when the consumer intends to interact with a person, or
disclose personal Information to a person, via one or more deliberate Interactions, such as
visiting the person's website or purchasing a good or service from the person. Hovering over,
muting, pausing, or closing a given piece of content does not constitute a consumer's intent to
interact with a person.
"Non-personal/zed advertising" means advertising and marketing that Is based solely on a
consumer's personal information derived from the consumer's current Interaction with the
business, with the exception of the consumer's precise geolocatlon.

(t}

24

Amendments to Version 3

fHr(u) "Person" means an individual, proprietorship, firm, partnership, joint venture, syndicate,
business trust, company, corporation, limited liability company, association, committee, and any
other organization or group of persons acting in concert.

fet-(v) (1) "Personal information" means information that identifies, relates to, describes, is
reasonably capable of being associated with, or could reasonably be linked, directly or
indirectly, with a particular consumer or household. Personal information includes, but Is riot
limited to, the following If It identifies, relates to, describes, is reasonably capable of being
associated with, or could be reasonably linked, directly or indirectly, with a particular consumer
or household:
(A) Identifiers such as a real name, alias, postal address, unique personal Identifier, on line
identifier, Internet Protocol address, email address, account name, social security number,
driver's license number, passport number, or other similar identifiers.
(B) Any eategories o~ personal information described in subdivision+ (e) of Section 1798.80.

(C) Characteristics of protected classifications under California or federal law.
(D) Commercial information, including records of personal property, products or services
purchased, obtained, or considered, or other purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies.
(E) Biometric information.
(F) Internet or other electronic network activity information, including, but not limited to,
browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer's interaction with an
IRterRet 'Nell site Internet website, application, or advertisement.
(G) Geolocation data.
(H) Audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or similar Information.
(I) Professional or employment-related Information.

(J) Education information, defined as information that is not publicly available personally
Identifiable information as defined In the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C.
section 1232g, 34 C.F.R. Part 99).
(K) Inferences drawn from any of the Information identified in this subdivision to create a profile
about a consumer reflecting the consumer's preferences, characteristics, psychological trends,
predispositions, behavior, attitudes, intelligence, abilities, and aptitudes.

(L) Sensitive personal information.
(2) "Personal information" does not Include publicly available information or lawfully obtained,
truthful Information that is a matter of public concern. For #Iese purposes of this paragraph,
"publicly available" means: Information that is lawfully made available from federal, state, or
local government records, or if any eonElltions asseeiateEI 'Nith such information that a business

has a reasonable basis to believe is lawfully made avollable ta the general public by the
consumer or from widely distributed media, or by the consumer; or information made
available by a person to whom the consumer has disclosed the information if the consumer
has not restricted the Information to a specific audience. "Publicly available" does not mean
biometric information collected by a business about a consumer without the consumer's
knowledge. lnfurmation Is not "~ul3liely a•1ailalale" if that Elata Is usea ror a ~ur~ose that is not

25

Amendments to Version 3
eem(ilatlllle with ttle flllFpese feF wtlieA U10 elata Is maintained anel maEle available in the
government FeeeFEls eF feF which it-is-f3uelicly maintalneel. "Plllllici1( a•;ailable "Personal
Information" does not Include consumer Information that Is de identified or aggregate consumer
Information.

(w) "Precise geolocat/on" means any data that Is derived from a device and that is used or
Intended to be used to locate a consumer within a geographic area that Is equal to or less than
the area of a circle with a radius of one thousand, eight hundred and fifty (1,850) feet, except
as prescribed by regulations.
w)-(x) "Probabilistic identifier" means the Identification of a consumer or a consumer's device to
a degree of certainty of more probable than not based on any categories of personal
Information included In, or similar to, the categories enumerated In the definition of personal
information.

w(y) "Processing" means any operation or set of operations that are performed on personal
eat& Information or on sets of personal eat& information, whether or not by automated means.
(z) "Prof/ling" means any form of automated processing of personal Information, as further

defined by regulations pursuant to paragraph {16} of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.185, to
evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, and In particular to analyze or
predict aspects concerning that natural person's performance at work, economic situation,
health, personal preferences, Interests, reliability, behavior, location or movements.
ff)-(aa) "Pseudonymize" or "Pseudonymlzation" means the processing of personal Information
In a manner that renders the personal Information no longer attributable to a specific consumer
without the use of additional information, provided that the additional Information is kept
separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures to ensure that the personal
information is not attributed to an identified or Identifiable consumer.

fsi-(ab} "Research" means scientific analysis, systematic study and observation, including basic
research or applied research that Is designed to develop or contribute to public or scientific
knowledge in the p~blie inteFest and that adheres or otherwise conforms to all other applicable
ethics and privacy laws, ef including but not limited to studies conducted in the public interest
in the area of public health. Research with personal information that may have been Collected
from a consumer in the course of the consumer's interactions with a business's service or device
for other purposes shall be:
(1) Compatible with the business purpose for which the personal information was collected.
(2) Subsequently pseudonymlzed and deidentified, or deidentified and in the aggregate, such
that the information cannot reasonably identify, relate to, describe, be capable of being
associated with, or be linked, directly or indirectly, to a particular consumer, by a business.
(3) Made subject to technical safeguards that prohibit reidentificatlon of the consumer to whom
the information may pertain, other than as needed to support the research.
(4) Subject to business processes that specifically prohibit reidentlfication of the information,

other than as needed to support the research.
(5) Made subject to business processes to prevent inadvertent release of deldentifled
information.
(6) Protected from any reidentlfication attempts.
26

Amendments to Version 3
(7) Used solely for research purposes that are compatible with the context in which the personal
information was collected.
(8) Net ee used fer aR\' eommereial purpose.
f9),-Subjected by the business conducting the research to additional security controls that limit
access to the research data to only those individuals IR a eusiRess as are necessary to carry out
the research purpose.

(ac} "Security and Integrity" means the ablllty: {1} of a network or an information system to
detect security Incidents that compromise the availob/1/ty, authenticity, Integrity, and
confidentiality of stored or transmitted personal information; (2} to detect security incidents,
resist malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal actions, and to help prosecute those
responsible for such actions; and (3) a business to ensure the physical safety of natural
persons.
i;t+{ad} (1) "Sell," "selling," "sale," or "sold,'' means selling, renting, releasing, disclosing,
disseminating, making available, transferring, or otherwise communicating orally, In writing, or
by electronic or other means, a consumer's personal information by the business to aRother
eusiRess or a third party for monetary or other valuable consideration.
(2) For purposes of this title, a business does not sell personal information when:
(A) A consumer uses or directs the business to: (i) intentionally disclose personal information;
or (ii) uses the euslRess ta intentionally interact with a one or more third f}aftV parties;;
praviEleEl the thirel party Elees Rot also sell the j;lerseAal IRfermatioA, uRless t11at ellselosure
would ee eeRsisteRt with Uie pra,,isioRs oftl1Is title . .'\R IRteRtiaRal iRteraetioA eceurs wheR tAe
eoRsumer iRteRds to iRteraet witA tt,e tAira party, via 0110 er mare aelieerate interaetieRs.
l-le\•eriRg over, mutlRg,.pausiRg, or cleslAg a giveR pieee of coRtent aoes R o t ~
GORsumer's iAteRt ta iAteraet witA a thinl partv.
(B) The business uses or shares an identifier for a consumer who has opted out of the sale of the
consumer's personal Information or limited the use of the consumer's sensitive personal
Information for the purposes of alerting third parties persons that the consumer has opted out
of the sale of the consumer's personal information or llmlted the use of the consumer's

sensitive personal information,; or
(C) TF1e eusiRess uses er shares witA a serviee f)revider persoRal iRfermatiaA ef a eeRsumer that
is Reeessary to perform a eusiRess purpose if eath of the falla>.YiAg e0Rditio11s are met1
{i) The 01;1siRess has provided Ratiee that infermation being used er sllared iR its terms aRa
eendltieRs eeRslsteRt with SectioR 1798.13§.
(Ii) The serviee pre11laer Elaes Rat f1;1rtAer callect, sell, er use tt,e perseRal IRfermatieR ef tl'le
eensumer eiieept as neeessary ta 11erferm tke euslAess purpase.

fGt-{C) The business transfers to a third party the personal information of a consumer as an
asset that is part of a merger, acquisition, bankruptcy, or other transaction In which the third
party assumes control of all or part of the business, provided that information Is used or shared
consistently with Seetl011s 1798,llQ aRa 1798.11§ this title, If a third party materially alters
how it uses or shares the personal Information of a consumer In a manner that is materially
inconsistent with the promises made at the time of collection, it shall provide prior notice of the
new or changed practice to the consumer. The notice shall be sufficiently prominent and robust
to ensure that existing consumers can easily exercise their choices consistently with SeetieR
27

Amendments to Version 3
1798.129 this title. This subparagraph does not authorize a business to make material,
retroactive privacy policy changes or make other changes in their privacy policy In a manner that
would violate the Unfair and Deceptive Practices Act (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
17200) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code).

(aeJ "Sensitive personal Information" means: (lJ personal Information that reveals (AJ a
consumer's social security, driver's license, state Identification card, or passport number; {BJ a
consumer's account log-In, financial account, debit .card, or credit card number In combination
with any required security or access code, password, or credentials allowing access to an
account; (CJ a consumer's precise geolocat/on; (DJ a consumer's racial or ethnic origin,
religious or philosophical beliefs, or union membership; (EJ the contents of a consumer's mall,
email and text messages, unless the business Is the Intended recipient of the communication;
(FJ a consumer's genetic data; and (2}(AJ the processing of biometric Information for the
purpose of uniquely identifying a consumer; (BJ personal Information collected and analyzed
concerning a consumer's health; or {CJ personal Information collected and analyzed
concerning a consumer's sex life or sexual orientation. Sensitive personal Information that Is
"publicly available" pursuant to paragraph {2J of subdivision (vJ of Section 1798.140 shall not
be considered sensitive personal Information or personal information.
f\¼)-(afJ "Service" or "services" means work, labor, and services, Including services furnished In
connection with the sale or repair of goods.

fv+(agJ (1J "Service provider" means a sele 13ro13rietersAlfl, 13artRersAifl, IIFAiteel liallility
eaFAJlaRy, eorperatieR, asseciatieA, er eti'ler legal OAtlty ti'lat Is ergaRl2eEI er 011erateEI for ti'le
flFOfit er i'iAaRelal Ile Refit el' its si'larei'loleieFs or oti'ler owAers, person that processes personal
information on behalfof a business and le which receives from or on behalf of the business
Eliseleses a consumer's personal information for a business purpose pursuant to a written
contract, provided that the contract prohibits the entity roeeiviAg ti'le infOrFAatlen person from:
(AJ selling or sharing the personal information; (BJ retaining, using, or disclosing the personal
information for any purpose other than for the Sfilecifie filllFfilOSe of fi)erferFAlng tf:lo servieos
business purposes specified in the contract for the business, er as etl:lerwlse fi)erFAitte€1 ey ti'lis
tA;le, including retaining, using, or disclosing the personal information for a commercial purpose
other than f)re•,•iaing tlcle serviees the business purposes specified in the contract with the
business, or as otherwise permitted by this title; (CJ retaining, using, or disclosing the

Information outside of the direct business relationship between the service provider and the
business; and (DJ combining the personal Information which the service provider receives from
or on behalf of the business, with personal Information which it receives from or on behalf of
another person or persons, or collects from its own interaction with the consumer, provided
that the service provider may combine personal Information to perform any business purpose
as defined in regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph {l0J of subdivision (aJ of Section
1798.185, except as provided for in paragraph {6J of subdivision (eJ of this Section and in
regulations adopted by the California Privacy Protection Agency. The contract may, subject to
agreement with the service provider, permit the business to monitor the service provider's
compliance with the contract through measures including, but not limited to, ongoing manual
reviews and automated scans, and regular assessments, audits, or other technical and
operational testing at least once every twelve (12J months.
(2J Jf a service provider engages any other person to assist It in processing personal
Information for a business purpose on behalf of the business, or if any other person engaged
by the service provider engages another person to assist In processing personal Information
for such business purpose, it shall notify the business of such engagement, and the
28

Amendments to Version 3

engagement shall be pursuant to a written contract binding the other person to observe all
the requirements set forth In paragraph {1}.
{oh} (1) "Shore," "shored," or "shoring" means shoring, renting, releasing, disclosing,
disseminating, making oval/able, transferring, or otherwise communicating orally, In writing,
or by electronic or other means, o consumer's personal Information by the business to a third
party for cross-context behavioral advertising, whether or not for monetary or other valuable
consideration, including transactions between a business and o third party for cross-context
behavioral advertising for the benefit of a business In which no money is exchanged.
{2} For purposes of this title, a business does not shore personal information when:

(A} A consumer uses or directs the business to: (I} intentionally disclose personal lnformotion;
or (II} Intentionally Interact with one or more third parties;
(BJ The business uses or shares on Identifier for o consumer who has opted out of the shoring
of the consumer's personal Information or limited the use of the consumer's sensitive personal
Information for the purposes of alerting persons that the consumer hos opted out of the
sharing of the consumer's personal Information or limited the use of the consumer's sensitive
personal lnfo_rmatlon.; or
(CJ The business transfers to a third party the personal Information of a consumer os an asset
that is port of a merger, acquisition, bankruptcy, or other transaction in which the third party
assumes control of oil or port of the business, provided that Information Is used or shared
consistently with this title. If o third party mater/ally alters how It uses or shores the personal
Information of o consumer In a manner that Is moter/olly inconsistent with the promises mode
at the time of collection, It shall provide prior notice of the new or changed practice to the
consumer. The notice shall be sufficiently prominent and robust to ensure that existing
consumers con easily exercise their choices consistently with this title. This subparagraph does
not authorize a business to make material, retroactive privacy policy changes or make other
changes In their privacy policy in a manner that would violate the Unfair and Deceptive
Practices Act (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 17200} of Part 2 of Division 7 of the
Business and Professions Code).
~(al} "Third party" means a person who Is not any of the following:
(1) The business with whom the consumer intentionally interacts and that collects personal
information from the consumer as part of the consumer's current interaction with the business
eeASllffleFs under this title,;
(2) A service provider to the business; or

(3) A contractor.
(A) A J;lerseA to wham the lrnslAess discloses a eoAsumer's personal iAfermatieA fer a i:Jusiness
pllrj;lese pursuant te a wFltteA eentract, pro•,ided that the eoAtraGt:
(i) Prntili:Jits the persoA receiving the j;lersenal lnfermatlon from,
(I) Selling the 13ersenal information.
(II) Retaining, 1o1sing, or disclosing the persaAal information feF any purpese ottier thaA feF the
speeifie 13wrpose of peFfeFming the services specified in the contract, including retaining, using,

29

Amendments to Version 3
or ElisclosiAg the personal infern:iation fer a eommercial pllrpose other than pro11ieling the
seFlllces specifieEI in the contract.
(!II) Retaining, using, or Ellseloslng the Information 01JtsiEle of the Elirect lluslness relationship
eetween the person anel the llusiness.
(II) lncluEles a certification maele by the person reeel,..lng the personal infermatlon that the
person unElerstanEls U1e restrictions In Sllllparagraiit:i' (Al anEI will comply witl'l them.

(B) A person co·,ered lly ti'lis paragraph that 11ielates an',' of the restrictions set ferth In this title
shall be Ila Ille for the violations. A bwslness that Eliseloses jclersonal lnfermatlon to a persan
co•,ereel by this 13aragraph In compliance with tl'lis 13aragra13h shall not Ile liable uneler this title If
tl'le person receiving the personal lnfermatlon uses It In \'lolatlen ofthe restrictions set fertR in
this title, pro11IEled that, at the tirne of disclosiAg the personal IAfermatlen, the b1JSIAess Elees not
l:lave actual lmowledge, or reason to llelieve, tl:1at the person intenEls to commit Slleh a violatioA,
f'4(aj} "Unique identifier" or "Unique personal identifier" means a persistent Identifier that can
be used to recognize a consumer, a family, or a device that is linked to a consumer or family,
over time and across different services, Including, but not limited to, a device identifier; an
Internet Protocol address; cookies, beacons, pixel tags, mobile ad Identifiers, or similar
technology; customer number, unique pseudonym, or user alias; telephone numbers, or other
forms of persistent or probabilistic identifiers that can be used to Identify a particular consumer
or device that is /Inked to a consumer or family. For purposes of this subdivision, "family"
means a custodial parent or guardian and any rnlftefChildren under 18 years of age over which
the parent or guardian has custody.

fi)-(ak} "Verifiable consumer request" means a request that is made by a consumer, by a
consumer on behalf of the consumer's minor child, e-r by a natural person or a person registered
with the Secretary of State, authorized by the consumer to act on the consumer's behalf, or by a
person who has power of attorney or Is acting as a conservator for the consumer, and that the
business can reasonably verify, using commercially reasonable methods, pursuant to
regulations adopted by the Attorney General pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1798.185 to be the consumer about whom the business has collected personal
Information. A business is not obligated to provide information to the consumer pursuant to
Sections 1798.110 and.1798.115, to delete personal Information pursuant to Section 1798,105,
or to correct inaccurate personal Information pursuant to Section 1798,106, if the business
cannot verify, pursuant to this subdivision and regulations adopted by the Attorney General
pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.185, that the consumer making the
request is the consumer about whom the business has collected Information or ls a person
authorized by the consumer to act on such consumer's behalf.
SEC. 15, Section 1798.145 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798,145. Exemptions
1798.145. (a) The obligations Imposed on businesses by this title shall not restrict a business's
ability to:
(1) Comply with federal, state, or local laws or comply with a caurt order or subpoena to

provide Information,
(2) Comply with a civil, criminal, or regulatory inquiry, investigation, subpoena, or summons by
federal, state, or local authorities. Law enforcement agencies, including police and sheriffs

30

Amendments to Version 3

departments, may direct a business pursuant to a law enforcement agency-approved
Investigation with an active case number not to delete a consumer's personal Information and
upon receipt of such direction a business shall. not delete the personal Information for 90 days,
In order to allow the law enforcement agency to obtain a court-issued subpoena, order, or
warrant to obtain a consumer's personal Information. For good cause and only to the extent
necessary for investigatory purposes, o law enforcement agency may direct a business not to
delete the consumer's personal information for additional 90 day periods. A business that has
received direction from o law enforcement agency not to delete the personal Information of a
consumer who has requested deletion of the consumer's personal information shall not use
the consumer's personal information for any purpose other than retaining it to produce to law
enforcement in response to a court-issued subpoena, order, or warrant, unless the consumer's
deletion request is subject to an exemption from deletion under this title.
(3) Cooperate with law enforcement agencies concerning conduct or activity that the business,
service provider, or third party reasonably and In good faith believes may violate federal, state,
or local law.

(4) Cooperate with a government agency request for emergency access to a consumer's
personal Information If a natural person is at risk or danger of death or serious physical injury,
provided that: (A) the request is approved by a high-ranking agency officer for emergency
access to a consumer's personal Information; (8) the request is based on the agency's good
faith determination that It has a lawful basis to access the Information on a non-emergency
basis; and (CJ the agency agrees to petition a court for an appropriate order within three days
and to destroy the information if that order is not granted.
{4(5) Exercise or defend legal claims.

f!ij-(6) Collect, use, retain, sell, share, or disclose eeAs~rner consumers' personal information
that Is deidentlfied or lfl-tAe aggregate consumer information.
fet-(7) Collect, ef-sell, or share a consumer's personal Information If every aspect of that
commercial conduct takes place wholly outside of California. For purposes of this title,
commercial conduct takes place wholly outside of California if the business collected that
information while the consumer was outside of California, no part of the sale of the consumer's
personal information occurred in California, and no personal information collected while the
consumer was In California is sold. This paragraph shall n o t ~ prohibit a business from
storing, including on a device, personal information about a consumer when the consumer Is in
California and then collecting that personal information when the consumer and stored personal
information is outside of California.
(b) The obligations imposed on businesses by Sections 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121,
1798,130, and ta 1798.135, inclusive, shall not apply where compliance by the business with the
title would violate an evidentiary privilege under California law and shall not prevent a business
from providing the personal information of a consumer to a person covered by an evidentiary
privilege under California law as part of a privileged communication.
(c) (1) This title shall not apply to any of the following:
(A) Medical information governed by the Confidentiality of Medical information Act (Part 2.6
(commencing with Section 56) of Division 1) or protected health information that is collected by
a covered entity or business associate governed by the privacy, security, and breach notification
rules issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Parts 160 and 164
of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, established pursuant to the Health Insurance

31

Amendments to Version 3
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191) and the Health Information
Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (Public Law 111-5).
(B) A provider of health care governed by the Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (Part
2.6 (commencing with Section 56) of Division 1) or a covered entity governed by the privacy,
security, and breach notification rules Issued by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services, Parts 160 and 164 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, established
pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104191), to the extent the provider or covered entity maintains patient information in the same
manner as medical information or protected health information as described in subparagraph
(A) of this section.
(C) Personal Information collected as part of a clinical trial or other biomedical research study
subject to or conducted in accordance with the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human
Subjects, also known as the Common Rule, pursuant to good clinical practice guidelines issued
by the International Council for Harmonisation or pursuant to human subject protection
requirements of the United States Food and Drug Administration, provided that such

Information is not sold or shared In a manner nat permitted by this subparagraph, and if it Is
Inconsistent, that participants be in/armed of such use and provide consent.
(2) For purposes of this subdivision, the definitions of "medical information" and "provider of
health care" In Section 56.05 shall apply and the definitions of "business associate," "covered
entity," and "protected health Information" in Section 160.103 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal
Regulations shall apply.
(d) (1) This title shall not apply to tl:le sale of JlerseAal infermatian to or fFOm a coAsumer
re13ortlng ageRCJ' iftAat information is to be ref)orted in, er t,tsed te geAerate, a ceRsumer reJcJort
as defiRed b•r subell•1lsioA (d) of SectioA 1681a of Title 1§ of tt'le Ynited States Code and use of
H1at Information is limited by tAe feeleral Fair Crel:lit ReportiAg .'\ct (15 Y.S.C, Sec. 1681 et seel-).

activity Involving the cal/ectlan, maintenance, disclosure, sale, communication, or use of any
personal information bearing an a consumer's credit worthiness, credit standing, credit
capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or made af living by a
consumer reporting agency, as defined in subdivision (f) af Sect/an 1681a af Title 15 af the
United States Cade, by a furnisher af Information, as set forth In Section 1681s•2 of Title 15 af
the United States Cade, wha provides infarmatian for use In a consumer report, as defined in
.subdivision (d) af Section 1681a a/Title 15 a/the United States Code, and by a user of a
consumer report as set forth in Sect/an 1681b of Title 15 af the United States Code.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall apply anly ta the extent that such activity Involving the callectlon,
maintenance, disclosure, sale, communication ar use af such infarmatian by that agency,
furnisher, ar user Is subject ta regulation under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, section 1681 et
seq., Title 15 af the United States Cade and the information is not collected, maintained, used,
communicated, disclosed ar said except as authorized by the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
(3) This subdivision (d} shall nat apply ta Section 1798.150.
(e) This title shall not apply to personal Information collected, processed, sold, or disclosed
flllFSuant subject to the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Public Law 106-102), and implementing
regulations, or the California Financial Information Privacy Act (Division 1.4 (commencing with
Section 4050) of the Financial Code), or the Federal Farm Credit Act af 1971 (as amended In 12

u.s.c. Sections 2001 •· 2279cc and Implementing regulations, 12 Cade af Federal Regulations,
Parts 600, et seq,). This subdivision shall not apply to Section 1798.150.
32

Amendments to Version 3
(f) This title shall not apply to personal Information collected, processed, sold, or disclosed
pursuant to the Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994 (18 U.S.C. Sec. 2721 et seq.), This
subdivision shall not apply to Section 1798.150.

(g) (1) Section 1798.120 shall not apply to vehicle information or ownership Information
retained or shared between a new motor vehicle dealer, as defined in Section 426 of the
Vehicle Code, and the vehicle's manufacturer, as defined In Section 672 of the Vehicle Code, if
the vehicle or ownership information is shared for the purpose of effectuating, or In
anticipation of effectuating, a vehicle repair covered by a vehicle warranty or a recall
conducted pursuant to Sections 301.18 to 30120, inclusive, of Title 49 of the United States
Code, provided that the new motor vehicle dealer or vehicle manufacturer with which that
vehicle information or ownership Information Is shared does not sell, share, or use that
information for any other purpose.
(2) For purposes of this subdivision:
(A) "Vehicle Information" means the vehicle Information number, make, model, year, and
odometer reading.
(BJ "Ownership Information" means the name or names of the registered owner or owners
and the contact information for the owner or owners.
i:gt(h) Notwithstanding a business's obligations to respond to and honor consumer rights
requests pursuant to this title:
(1) A time period for a business to respond to a consumer for any llefifiea verifiable consumer
request may be extended by up to a total of90 aaaltlaAal days where necessary, taking into
account the complexity and number of the requests. The business shall inform the consumer of
any such extension within 45 days of receipt of the request, together with the reasons for the
delay,
(2) If the business does not take action on the request of the consumer, the business shall
Inform the consumer, without delay and at the latest within the time period permitted of
response by this section, of the reasons for not taking action and any rights the consumer may
have to appeal the decision to the business.
(3) If requests from a consumer are manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because of
their repetitive character, a business may either charge a reasonable fee, taking into account the
administrative costs of providing the information or communication or taking the action
requested, or refuse to act on the request and notify the consumer of the reason for refusing
the request. The business shall bear the burden of demonstrating that any verified verifiable
consumer request Is manifestly unfounded or excessive.

fAt-(1) {1} A business that discloses personal information to a service provider or contractor In
compliance with this title shall not be liable under this title if the service provider or contractor
receiving the personal information uses it In violation of the restrictions set forth in the title,
provided that, at the time of disclosing the personal information, the business does not have
actual knowledge, or reason to believe, that the service provider or contractor intends to
commit such a violation. A service provider or contractor shall likewise not be liable under this
title for the obligations of a business for which it provides services as set forth in this title,

provided that the service provider or contractor shall be liable for Its own violations of this
title,
33

Amendments to Version 3

(2) A business thQt discloses personal informQtion of a consumer, with the exception of
consumers who have exercised their right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their personal
information, consumers who have limited the use or disclosure of their sensitive personal
Information, Qnd minor consumers who have not opted-in to the collection or sale of their
personQ/ information, to a third party pursuant to a written contract that requires the third
party to provide the SQme level of protection of the consumer's rights under this title QS
provided by the business shQ/1 not be liable under this title if the third party receiving the
personal information uses it in violation of the restrictions set forth in the title, provided that,
at the time of disclosing the personal Information, the business does not have actual
knowledge, reason to believe, that the third party Intends to commit such a violation.

or

~(J) This title shall not be construed to require a business, service provider, or contractor to:
(l) reidentify or otherwise link information that, in the ordinary course of business, Is not
maintained in a manner that would be considered personal Information; (2) retain any personal
Information about a consumer if, in the ordinary course of business, that information about
the consumer would not be retained; or (3) maintain information in Identifiable, linkable or
associable form, or collect, obtain, retain, or access any data or technology, in order to be
capable of /Inking or associating a verifiable consumer request with personol information.
-ffi-(k) The rights afforded to consumers and the obligations imposed on the business In this title
shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of other soAsumers natural persons. A

verifiable consumer request for specific pieces of personQI information pursuant to Section
1798.110, to delete a consumer's personal Information pursuQnt to Section 1798.105, or to
correct Inaccurate personal lnformQt/on pursuant to Section 1798,106, shQII not extend to
personal Information Qbout the consumer that belongs to, or the business maintains on behalf
of, another natural person. A business may rely on representations mQde in a verifiable
consumer request as to rights with respect to personQ/ information and Is under no /egQI
requirement to seek out other persons that may hQve or c/Qfm to hQve rights to personal
lnfarmatlon, and a business is under no legal ob//gQt/on under this title or any other provision
of /QW to take any action under this title In the event of a dispute between or among persons
claiming rights to personal Information in the business's possession.
fkt-(1) The rights afforded to consumers and the obligations imposed on any business under this
title shall not apply to the extent that they Infringe on the noncommercial activities of a person
or entity described in subdivision (b} of Section 2 of Article I of the California Constitution.

(m) (1) This title shall not apply to Qny ofthefollowlng:
(A) Personal Information that Is collected by a business about a natural person fn the course of
the natural person acting as a Job applicant to, an employee of, owner of, director of, officer
of, medical staff member of, or Independent contractor of that business to the extent that the
natural person's personal information is collected and used by the business solely within the
context of the natural person's role or former role QS a Job applicant to, an employee of, owner
of, director of, officer of, medical staff member of, or an independent contractor of that
business,
(BJ Personal information that is collected by a business that is emergency contact Information
of the natural person acting as a job applicant to, an employee of, owner of, director of, officer
of, medical staff member of, or independent contractor of that business to the extent that the
personal Information is collected and used solely within the context of having an emergency
contact on file.
34

Amendments to Version 3

(CJ Personal Information that is necessary for the business to retain to administer benefits for
another natural person relating to the natural person acting as a Job applicant to, an
employee of, owner of, director of, officer of, medical staff member of, or Independent
contractor of that business to the extent that the personal information is collected and used
solely within the context of administering those benefits.
{2) For purposes of this subdivision:
(A) "Independent contractor" means a natural person who provides any service to a business
pursuant to a written contract.
{B) "Director" means a natural person designated In the articles of incorporation as such or
elected by the /ncorporators and natural persons designated, elected, or appointed by any
other name or title to act as directors, and their successors.
(C) "Medical staff member" means a licensed physician and surgeon, dentist, or podiatrist,
licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions
Code and a clinical psychologist as defined in Section 1316.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
(D) "Officer" means a natural person elected or appointed by the board of directors to manage
the dally operations of a corporation, such as a chief executive officer, president, secretary, or
treasurer.
(E) "Owner" means a natural person who meets one of the following:
(i) Has ownership of, or the power to vote, more than SO percent of the outstanding shares of

any class of voting security of a business.
{II) Has control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors or of individuals
exercising similar functions.
(iii) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management of a company.

(3) This subdivision shall not apply to subdivision (a) of Section 1798.100 or Section 1798.150.
(4) This subdivision shall become Inoperative on January 1, 2023.
(n) {1) The obligations imposed on businesses by Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 1798,106,
1798.110, 1798,115, 1798.121, 1798.130, and 1798.135 shall not apply to personal Information
reflecting a written or verbal communication or a transaction between the business and the
consumer, where the consumer is a natural person who acted or is acting as an employee,
owner, director, officer, or independent contractor of a company, partnership, sole
proprietorship, non-profit, or government agency and whose communications or transaction
with the business occur solely within the context of the business conducting due diligence
regarding, or providing or receiving a product or service to or from such company, partnership,
sole proprietorship, non-profit, or government agency.
(2) For purposes of this subdivision:
(A) "Independent contractor" means a natural person who provides any service to a business
pursuant to a written contract.
(BJ "Director" means a natural person designated In the articles of Incorporation as such or
elected by the lncorporators and natural persons designated, elected, or appointed by any other
name or title to act as directors, and their successors.

ii

Amendments to Version 3

(CJ "Officer" means o natural person elected or appointed by the board of directors to manage
the dolly operations of o corporation, such os a chief executive officer, president, secretory, or
treasurer,
(DJ "Owner" means a natural person who meets one of the following:
(i} Hos ownership ot or the power to vote, more than 50 percent of the outstanding shares of

any class of voting security of a business.
(fl) Has control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors or of Individuals

exercising similar functions.
(Iii) Has the power to exercise a control/Ing Influence over the management of a company.
{3) This subdivision shall become Inoperative on January 1, 2023.
(o) {1) Sections 1798,105 ond 1798.120 shall not apply to a commercial credit reporting
agency's collection, processing, sale, or disclosure of business controller information to the
extent the commercial credit reporting agency uses the business controller information solely
to Identify the relotlonshlp of a consumer to a business which the consumer owns or contact
the consumer only In the consumer's role as the owner, director, officer, or management
employee of the business.
(2) For the purposes of this subdivision:
{A) "Business controller information" means the nome or names of the owner or owners,
director, officer, or management employee of a business, and the contact information,
Including a business title, for the owner or owners, director, officer, or management employee.
{B) "Commercial credit reporting agency" has the meaning set forth subdivision (b) of Section
1785.42,
(CJ "Owner or owners" means a natural person that meets one of the following:
(/) Hos ownership ot or the power to vote, more than 50 percent of the outstanding shares of
any class of voting security of a business,
(II} Hos control In any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, or of individuals
exercising similar functions.
(iii) Has the pow(!r to exercise a control/Ing influence over the management of a company.
(CJ "Director" means a natural person designated In the articles of incorporation of a business
as such or elected by the lncorporators and natural persons designated, elected or appointed
by any other name or title to act as directors, ond their successors.
(DJ "Officer" means a natural person elected or appointed by the board of directors of o
business to monoge the daily operations of o corporation, such os o chief executive officer,
president, secretory, or treasurer.
{E) "Management employee" means o natural person whose name and contact information Is
reported to or collected by a commercial credit reporting agency os the primary manager of o
business ond used solely within the context of the natural person's role os the primary
manager of the business.
36

Amendments to Version 3

(p} The obligations Imposed on businesses in Sections 1798,105, 1798.106, 1798.110, and
1798.115 Inclusive, shall not apply to household data.
(q} (1) This title does not require a business to comply with a verifiable consumer request to
delete a consumer's personal information under Section 1798,105 to the extent the verifiable
consumer request applies to a student's grades, educational scores, or educational test results
that the business holds on behalf of o loco/ educot/onol agency, as defined in subdivision (d} of
Section 49073.1 of the Education Code, ot which the student Is currently enrolled. if a business
does not comply with o request pursuant to this section, it shall notify the consumer that It is
acting pursuant to this exception,
(2) This title does not require, In response too request pursuant to Section 1798.110, that a
business disclose on educational standardized assessment or educational assessment or o
consumer's specific responses to the educational standardized assessment or educational
assessment where consumer access, possession or control would Jeopardize the validity and
re/lab//ity of that educational standard/zed assessment or educational assessment. If a
business does not comply with a request pursuant to this section, it shall notify the consumer
that It is acting pursuant to this exception. ·
{3} Far purposes of this subdivision:
{A} "Educational standardized assessment or educational assessment" means a standardized
or non-standardized quiz, test, or other assessment used to evaluate students In or for entry to
K-12 schools, post-secondary Institutions, vocational programs, and postgraduate programs
which are accredited by an accrediting agency or organization recognized by the state of
California or the United States Deportment of Education, os well as certification and I/censure
examinations used to determine competency and ellglbllity to receive certification or //censure
from a government agency or government certification body.
(BJ "Jeopardize the volldlty and rellablllty of that educational standardized assessment or
educational assessment" means releasing Information that would provide an advantage to
the consumer who has submitted a verifiable consumer request or to another natural person.
(r} Sections 1798.105 and 1798.120 shall not apply to a business's use, disclosure, or sale of
particular pieces of a consumer's personal Information If the consumer has consented to the
business's use, disclosure, or sale of that information to produce o physical Item such os a
school yearbook containing the consumer's photograph If:
(1) The business hos Incurred significant expense In reliance on the consumer's consent;
{2} Compliance with the consumer's request to opt-out of the sale of the consumer's personal
information or to delete the consumer's personal information would not be commerclally
reasonable; and
(3) The business complies with the consumer's request as soon as it Is commercially reasonable
todoso.
SEC. 16. Section 1798.150 of the Civil Code ls amended to read:

1798.150, Personal Information Security Breaches
1798.150. (a) (1) Any consumer whose nonencrypted fill' and non redacted personal information,
as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 1798.81.5, or whose

37

Amendments to Version 3

email address In combination with a password or security question and answer that would
permit access to the account, Is subject to an unauthorized access and exfiltration, theft, or
disclosure as a result of the business's violation of the duty to implement and maintain
reasonable security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the information to
protect the personal information may institute a civil action for any of the following:
(A) To recover damages in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100) and not greater
than seven hundred and fifty ($750) per consumer per incident or actual damages, whichever is
greater.
(B) Injunctive or declaratory relief.
{C) Any other relief the court deems proper.
(2) In assessing the amount of statutory damages, the court shall consider any one or more of
the relevant circumstances presented by any of the parties to the case, including, but not
limited to, the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the
persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred, the
willfulness of the defendant's misconduct, and the defendant's assets, liabilities, and net worth.
(b) Actions pursuant to this section may be brought by a consumer if, prior to initiating any
action against a business for statutory damages on an individual or class-wide basis, a consumer
provides a business 30 days' written notice identifying the specific provisions of this title the
consumer alleges have been or are being violated. In the event a cure is possible, if within the
30 days the business actually cures the noticed violation and provides the consumer an express
written statement that the violations have been cured and that no further violations shall occur,
no action for individual statutory damages or class-wide statutory damages may be initiated
against the business. The Implementation and maintenance of reasonable security procedures

and practices pursuant to Section 1798,81.5 fol/owing a breach does not constitute a cure with
respect to that breach. No notice shall be required prior to an individual consumer initiating an
action solely for actual pecuniary damages suffered as a result of the alleged violations of this
title. If a business continues to violate this title in breach of the express written statement
provided to the consumer under this section, the consumer may initiate an action against the
business to enforce the written statement and may pursue statutory damages for each breach
of the express written statement, as well as any other violation of the title that postdates the
written statement.
(c) The cause of action established by this section shall apply only to violations as defined in
subdivision (a) and shall not be based on violations of any other section of this title. Nothing in
this title shall be interpreted to serve as the basis for a private right of action under any other
law. This shall not be construed to relieve any party from any duties or obligations imposed
under other law or the United States or California Constitution.

SEC. 17. Section 1798.15S of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798,155. Administrative Enforcement
1798.155. (a) AN,· awsiAess or third party rnay seek H,e opiAiOA ef ti:le Mtome•t GeAeral fer
guiElaR€e OR how to €8lflply wiU1 the f)FO','iSIOAS of this title.

fat/\ 13us1Aess si:lall ee iR ...1olati0A ef this title If it fails te ettre aR'{ allege el \'iolatioR 'NithiA 30
da•ts after aelAg Aotifiea of alleged ReRsornpliaRce. Any business, service provider, contractor
or other person that violates this title shall be sttbjeet to aR iAjttRetioA aAa liable for an

administrative fine of not more than two thousand five hundred dollars {$2,500} for each
38

Amendments to Version 3

violation, or seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500} for each Intentional violation or
violations involving the personal information of consumers whom the business, service
provider, contractor or other person has actual knowledge Is under 16 years of age, as
adjusted pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.185, In an administrative
enforcement action brought by the California Privacy Protection Agency a ei•;il 13eAalt·r of Aot
more than two thottsanel five llttAelreel elollars {$2,§00) for ea ell violatloA or se,•eA tt-lottsaREI five
AlclAElred elellars {$7,!i00) for eaefl inteAtloAal vielatioA, whiell sflall Ile assesseEI anEI reeovereEI In
a ci•Jil aetlon llrottght in the name of tke iieo!)le of tile State of California ll•; tile /\tterney
Gofleral. Tt-le eMI 13eAaltles pro11iaeli for iR ti'lls seetlaA sllall Ile e1rnlt1si•,•ely assesseEI anEI
recovereli in a civil actioA erawgl<lt IA tile Aame of tile !)eople of Hie State of Galifernia b•,• the
Attorney GeAeral.
~ (b) Any civil 13eRalty administrative fine assessed for a violation of this title, and the proceeds

of any settlement of an action brought pursuant to subdivision {ht (a), shall be deposited in the
Consumer Privacy Fund, created within the General Fund pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
1798.160 with the Intent to fully offset any costs incurred by the state courts, arui the Attorney
General and the California Privacy Protection Agency In connection with this title.
SEC, 18, Section 1798.160 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.160. Consumer Privacy Fund
1798.160. (a) A special fund to be known as the "Consumer Privacy Fund" is hereby created within
the General Fund in the State Treasury, and is available upon appropriation by the Legislature first
to offset any costs incurred by the state courts in connection with actions brought to enforce this
title, aAEI aAy the costs incurred by the Attorney General in carrying out the Attorney General's
duties under this title, and then for the purposes of establishing an investment fund In the State

Treasury, with any earnings or Interest from the fund to be deposited In the General Fund, and
making grants to promote and protect consumer privacy, educate children In the oreo of on//ne
privacy, and fund cooperative programs with International law enforcement organizations to
combat fraudulent activities with respect to consumer data breaches.
(b) Funds transferred to the Consumer Privacy Fund shall be used exclusively as follows:
(1) to offset any costs incurred by the state courts and the Attorney General in connection with
this title.

(2) after satisfying the obligations under paragraph (1), the remaining funds shall be allocated
each fiscal year as follows: (A) ninety-one percent (91%) shall be Invested by the Treasurer In
financial assets with the goal of maximizing long term yields consistent with a prudent level of
risk; the principal shall not be subject to transfer or appropriation, provided that any Interest
and earnings shall be transferred on on annual basis to the General Fund for appropriation by
the Legislature for General Fund purposes; and (B) nine percent (9%} shall be mode available
to the California Privacy Protection Agency for the purposes of making grants in California,
with three percent (3%} allocated to each of the following grant recipients: (/) non-profit
organizations to promote and protect consumer privacy; (ii) non-profit organizations and
public agencies, Including school districts, to educate children in the area of onllne privacy;
and (Iii) state and local low enforcement agencies to fund cooperative programs with
/nternotional law enforcement orgonlzotlons to combat fraudulent activities with respect to
consumer data breaches.
(c) niese fuAds Funds in the Consumer Privacy Fund shall not be subject to appropriation or
transfer by the Legislature for any other purpose., unless tile Direeter ef FIAaAce determines

39

Amendments to Version 3
that the funds aFe iR eimess of the funding neeeled to fully offset the easts lneurreel av the state
courts anel the Attorney General in connection with this title, In which case the Legislature ma•,'
~opriate mrness funas fur otf1er purpOWS,
SEC. 19, Section 1798,175 of the Civil Code is hereby reenacted to read:

1798.175. Conflicting Provisions
1798.175, This title is intended to further the constitutional right of privacy and to supplement
existing laws relating to consumers' personal information, including, but not limited to, Chapter
22 (commencing with Section 22575) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code and
Title 1.81 (commencing with Section 1798.80). The provisions of this title are not limited to
information collected electronically or over the Internet, but apply to the collection and sale of
all personal information collected by a business from consumers. Wherever possible, law
relating to consumers' personal information should be construed to harmonize with the
provisions of this title, but in the event of a conflict between other laws and the provisions of
this title, the provisions of the law that afford the greatest protection for the right of privacy for
consumers shall control.
SEC. 20, Section 1798.180 of the Civil Code Is hereby reenacted to read:

1798.180. Preemption
1798.180. This title is a matter of statewide concern and supersedes and preempts all rules,
regulations, codes, ordinances, and other laws adopted by a city, county, city and county,
municipality, or local agency regarding the collection and sale of consumers' personal
information by a business.
SEC. 21. Section 1798.185 of the Civil Code Is amended to read:

1798.185. Regulations
1798.185. (a) On or before July 1, 2020, the Attorney General shall solicit broad public
participation and adopt regulations to further the purposes of this title, including, but not
limited to, the following areas:
(1) Updating or adding as neeelea aelelitianal categories of personal Information to those
enumerated in subdivision (c) of Section 1798.130 and subdivision \et (v) of Section 1798.140,

and updating or adding categories of sensitive person11I inform11tlon to th11se enumemted In
subdivision (ae) of Section 1798.140, in order to address changes in technology, data collection
practices, obstacles to Implementation, and privacy concerns.
(2) Updating as needed the eleflnition definitions of "deidentified" a n d ~
"unique identifier" to address changes in technology, data collection, obstacles to
Implementation, and privacy concerns, a n d ~ adding, modifying, or deleting categories
to the definition of designated methods for submitting requests to facilitate a consumer's ability
to obtain information from a business pursuant to Section 1798.130. The authority to upd11te the

definition of "de/dent/fled• shall not apply to deidentif/catlon standards set forth In Section 164.514
of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulatlons,_where such information previously was "protected
health Information" os defined In Section 160.103 of that title.
(3) Establishing any exceptions necessary to comply with state or federal law, including, but not
limited to, those relating to trade secrets and intellectual property rights, within one year of

40

Amendments to Version 3
passage of this title and as needed thereafter, with the Intention that trade secrets should not

be disclosed In response to a verifiable consumer request.
(4) Establishing rules and procedures for the following:
(A) To facilitate and govern the submission of a request by a consumer to opt-out of the sale or
sharing of personal Information pursuant to paragra13R (1) of subaMsian (a) of Section 1798.145

1798.120 and to limit the use of a consumer's sensitive personal Information pursuant to
Section 1798.121 to ensure that consumers have the ability to exercise their choices without
undue burden and to prevent business from engaging In deceptive or harassing conduct,
including In retaliation against consumers for exercising their rights, while allowing businesses
to Inform consumers of the consequences of their decision to opt-out of the sate or sharing of
their personal Information or to limit the use of their sensitive personal Information.
(B) To govern business compliance with a consumer's opt-out request.

(C) For the development and use of a recognizable and uniform opt-out logo or button by all
businesses to promote consumer awareness of the opportunity to opt-out of the sale of
personal information.
(5) Adjusting the monetary tRresRela thresholds, In January of every odd-numbered year to
reflect any increase in the Consumer Price Index, In: subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of
subdivision te) (dJ of Section 1798.140; subparagraph (AJ of paragraph (1J of subdivision (aJ of

Section 1798,150; subdivision (aJ of Section 1798.155; Section 1798.199,25; and subdivision (aJ
of Section 1798.199.90 in Januar>( of eveF)' oaa n1;mbereEI ~•ear ta reflect any inerease In tRe
CORSllffler Price IREleK.

(6.) Establishing rules, procedures, and any exceptions necessary to ensure that the notices and
information that businesses are required to provide pursuant to this title are provided In a
manner that may be easily understood by the average consumer, are accessible to consumers
with disabilities, and are available In the language primarily used to interact with the consumer,
Including establishing rules and guidelines regarding financial Incentives lncentl>;e efferlngs,
within one year of passage of this title and as needed thereafter.
(7) Establishing rules and procedures to further the purposes of Sections 1798.105, 1798.106,
1798.110 and 1798.115 and to facilitate a consumer's or the consumer's authorized agent's
ability to delete personal information, correct inaccurate personal Information pursuant to
Section 1798,106, or obtain Information pursuant to Section 1798.130, with the goal of
minimizing the administrative burden on consumers, taking into account available technology,
security concerns, and the burden on the business, to govern a business's determination that a
request for information received from a consumer is a verifiable consumer request, including
treating a request submitted through a password-protected account maintained by the
consumer with the business while the consumer Is logged into the account as a verifiable
consumer request and providing a mechanism for a consumer who does not maintain an
account with the business to request information through the business's authentication of the
consumer's identity, within one year of passage of this title and as needed thereafter.

av

(BJ Establishing how often, and under what circumstances, a consumer may request a
correction pursuant to Section 1798.106, including standards governing: (AJ how a business
responds to a request for correction, Including exceptions for requests to which a response Is
impossible or would Involve disproportionate effort, and requests for correction of accurate
information; (BJ how concerns regarding the accuracy of the information may be resolved; (CJ
the steps a business may take to prevent fraud; and {DJ If a business rejects a request to
41

Amendments to Version 3

correct personal Information collected and analyzed concerning a consumer's health, the right
of a consumer to provide a written addendum to the business with respect to any item or
statement regarding any such personal information that the consumer believes to be
incomplete or incorrect. The addendum shall be limited to 250 words per alleged incomplete
or incorrect Item and shall clearly Indicate in writing that the consumer requests the
addendum to be mode a port of the consumer's record.
{9J Establishing the standard to govern a business's determination, pursuant to subparagraph
{BJ of paragraph (2J of subdivision (oJ of Section 1798.1.30, that providing Information beyond
the 12-month period In a response to a verifiable consumer request Is Impossible or would
Involve a disproportionate effort.
{1.0J Issuing regulations further defining and adding to the business purposes, including other
notified purposes, for which businesses, service providers, and contractors may use consumers'
personal Information consistent with consumers' expectations, and further defining the
business purposes for which service providers and contractors may combine consumers'
personal Information obtained from different sources, except as provided for In paragraph {6J
· of subdivision (eJ of Section 1798,140,
{11J Issuing regulations Identifying those business purposes, Including other notified purposes,
for which service providers and contractors may use consumers' personal Information received
pursuant to a written contract with a business, for the service provider or contractor's own
business purposes, with the goal of maximizing consumer privacy.
(1.2J Issuing regulations to further define "intentlonally interacts," with the goal of maximizing
consumer privacy,
{13J Issuing regulations to further define "precise geo/ocation," such as where the size defined
Is not sufficient to protect consumer privacy in sparsely populated areas, or when the personal
Information Is used for normal operational purposes, such os billing.
{14J Issuing regulations to define the term "specific pieces of lnformotion obtoined from the
consumer" with the goal of maximizing a consumer's right to access re/evont personal
Information while minimizing the delivery of lnformotion to o consumer that would not be
useful to the consumer, such as system log Information and other technical data. For delivery
of the most sensitive personal information, the regulations may require a higher standard of
authentication, provided that the agency shall monitor the Impact of the higher standard on
the right of consumers to obtain their personal information to ensure that the requirements of
verification do not result in the unreasonable denial of verifiable consumer requests.
{15J Issuing regulations requiring businesses whose processing of consumers' personal
information presents significant risk to consumers' privacy or security, to: (A} perform a
cybersecurity audit on an annual basis, including defining the scope of the audit and
establishing a process ta ensure that audits are thorough and Independent. The factors to be
considered in determining when processing may result in significant risk to the security of
personal Information shall Include the size and complexity of the business and the nature and
scope of processing activities,
(BJ submit to the California Privacy Protection Agency on a regular basis a risk assessment
with respect to their processing of personal Information, including whether the processing
involves sensitive personal information, and Identifying and weighing the benefits resulting
from the processing to the business, the consumer, other stakeholders, and the public, against
the potential risks to the rights of the consumer associated with such processing, with the goal
42

Amendments to Version 3

of restricting or prohibiting such processing if the risks to privacy of the consumer outweigh
the benefits resulting from processing to the consumer, the business, other stakeholders, and
the pub/le, Nothing in this section shall require a business to divulge trade secrets,
{16) Issuing regulations governing access and opt-out rights with respect to businesses' use of

automated decision-making technology, including profiling and requiring businesses' response
to access requests to Include meaningful information about the logic Involved In such decision­
making processes, as well as a description of the likely outcome of the process with respect to
the consumer.
(17) Issuing regulations to further define a "law enforcement agency-approved investigation"
for purposes of the exception In paragraph {2) of subdivision {a) of Section 1798.145.

(18} Issuing regulations to define the scope and process for the exercise of the agency's audit

authority, to establish criteria for selection of persons to audit, and to protect consumers'
personal Information from disclosure to an auditor, in the absence of a court order, warrant,
or subpoena.
(1.9} (A) Issuing regulations to define the requirements and technical specifications for an opt­
out preference signal sent by a platform, technology, or mechanism, to indicate a consumer's
Intent to opt-out of the sale or sharing of the consumer's personal information and to limit the
use or disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal Information. The requirements and
specifications for the opt-out preference signal should be updated from time to time to reflect
the means by which consumers interact with businesses, and should: (/) ensure that the
manufacturer of a platform or browser ar device that sends the opt-out preference signal
cannot unfairly disadvantage another business; (fl) ensure that the opt-out preference signal Is
consumer1riendiy, clearly described, and easy to use by an average consumer, and does not
require that the consumer provide additional information beyond what is necessary; (iii)
clearly represent a consumer's intent and be free of defaults constraining or presupposing
such Intent; (iv) ensure that the opt-out preference signal does not conflict with other
commonly-used privacy settings ar tools that consumers may employ; (v) provide a
mechanism for the consumer to selectively consent to a bus/nessls sale of the consumer's
personal Information, or the use or disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal
Information, without affecting their preferences with respect to other businesses or disabling
the opt-out preference signal globally; and {vi) state that in the case of a page or setting view
which the consumer accesses to set the opt-out preference signal, the consumer should see up
to three choices, including (a) a global opt-out from sale and sharing of personal Information,
Including a direct/on to limit the use of sensitive personal information; (b) a choice to "Limit
The Use Of My Sensitive Personal Information"; and (c) a choice titled "Do Not Sell/Do Not
Share/Do Not Share My Personal Information for Cross-Context Behavioral Advertising,"
{BJ Issuing regulations to establish technical specifications for an opt-out preference signal
that allows the consumer, or the consumer's parent or guard/an, to specify that the consumer
is Jess than 13 years of age or at least 13 years of age and less than 1.6 years of age.
{CJ Issuing regulations, with the goal of strengthening consumer privacy, while considering the
legitimate operational interests of businesses, to govern the use or disclosure of a consumer's
sensitive personal information, notwithstanding the consumer's direction to limit the use or
disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal Information, including: (i) determining any
additional purposes for which a business may use or disclose a consumer's sensitive personal
information; (ii) determining the scope of activities permitted under paragraph (8) of
43

Amendments to Version 3

subdivision .(e) of Section 1798,140, as authorized by subdivision (a) of Section 1798,121, to
ensure thot the activities do not Involve health-related research; {ill} ensuring the functionality
of the business's operations; and {Iv) ensuring that the exemption In subdivision (d) of Section
1798.1.21/or sensitive personal Information opp//es to information that Is collected or
processed Incidentally, or without the purpose of Inferring characteristics about a consumer,
while ensuring thot businesses do not use the exemption for the purpose of evading
consumers' rights to limit the use and disclosure of their sensitive personal lnformotion under
Section 1798.121.
{20) Issuing regulations to govern how a business that has elected to comply with subdivision
(b) of Section 1798,135 responds to the opt-out preference signal and provides consumers with
the opportunity subsequently to consent to the sale or sharing of their personal Information or
the use and disclosure of their sensitive personal Information for purposes in addition to those
authorized by subdivision (a) of Section 1798.121. The regulations should: (A) strive to
promote competition and consumer choice and be technology neutral; (BJ ensure that the
business does not respond to an opt-out preference signal by: (i) intentionally degrading the
functionality of the consumer experience; (II) charging the consumer a Jee in response to the
consumer's opt-out preferences; (Ill) making any products or services not Junction properly or
fully for the consumer, as compared to consumers who do not use the opt-out preference
signal; (iv) attempting to coerce the consumer to opt-in to the sale or sharing of their personal
Information, or the use or disclosure of their sensitive personal Information, by stating or
Implying that the use of the opt-out preference signal will adversely affect the consumer as
compared to consumers who do not use the opt-out preference signal, including stating or
Implying that the consumer will not be able to use the business's products or services, or that
such products or services may not junction properly ar fully; or (v) displaying any notification
or pop-up in response to the consumer's opt-out preference signal; and {CJ ensure that any link
to a webpage or its supporting content that allows the consumer to consent to opt-in: (/) Is
not part of a popup, notice, banner, or other intrusive design that obscures any part of the
webpage the consumer Intended to visit from full view, or that interferes with or impedes in
any way the consumer's experience visiting or browsing the webpage or website the consumer
intended to visit; (ii) does not require or Imply that the consumer must click the link to receive
full functionality of any products or services, including the website; (iii) does not make use of
any dark patterns; and (iv) applies only to the business with which the consumer intends to
Interact. The regulation should strive to curb coercive or deceptive practices in response to an
opt-out preference signal but should not unduly restrict businesses that are trying In good
faith to comply with Section 1798,135.
(21) Review existing California Insurance Code provisions and regulations relating to consumer
privacy, except those relating to insurance rates or pricing, to determine whether any
provisions of the Insurance Code provide greater protection to consumers than the provisions
of this Title. Upon completing Its review, the Agency shall adopt a regulation that applies only
the more protective provisions of this Title to insurance companies. For the purpose of clarity,
the Insurance Commissioner shall have jurisdiction over insurance rates and pricing.
(22) Harmonizing the regulations governing opt-out mechanisms, notices to consumers, and
other operational mechanisms In this title to promote clarity and the functionality of this title
for consumers.
(b) The Attorney General may adopt additional regulations as necessary to further the purposes
of this title.

44

Amendments to Version 3
(c) The Attorney General shall not bring an enforcement action under this title until six months
after the publication of the final regulations issued pursuant to this section or July 1, 2020,
whichever is sooner.

{d} Notwithstanding subdivision (a}, the timel/ne for adopting final regulations required by the
Act adding this subdivision shall be July 1, 2022. Beginning the later of July 1, 2021, or six
months after the Agency provides notice to the Attorney General that It is prepared to begin
rulemaklng under this title, the authority assigned to the Attorney General to adopt
regulations under this section shall be exercised by the California Privacy Protection Agency.
Notwithstanding any other law, civil and administrative enforcement of the provisions of law
added or amended by this Act shall not commence until July 1, 2023, and shall only apply to
violations occurring on or after that date. Enforcement of provisions of law contained in the
California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 amended or reenacted by this Act shall remain In
effect and shall be enforceable until the same provisions of this Act become enforceable.
SEC. 22. Section 1798.190 of the Civil Code Is amended to read:

1798,190. Anti-Avoidance
1798.190. A court or the Agency shall disregard the Intermediate steps or transactions for
purposes of effectuating the purposes of this title: (a) If #-a series of steps or transactions were
component parts of a single transaction Intended from the beginning to be taken with the
intention of avoiding the reach of this title, including the disclosure of information by a business
to a third party in order to avoid the definition of sell or share7; or (b) If steps or transactions

were taken to purposely avoid the definition of sell or share by eliminating any monetary or
other valuable consideration, Including by entering into contracts that do not include an
exchange for monetary or other valuable consideration, but where a party Is obtaining
something of value or use a-eoort snail disregard tne inten'l'!ediate ste13s or transaetioAs for
13t1rposes ef effuctt1ating tne p1,1r13eses ef this title.
SEC. 23. Section 1798.192 of the Civil Code is amended to read:

1798.192. Waiver
1798.192. Any provision of a contract or agreement of any kind, Including a representative
action waiver, that purports to waive or limit in any way a consumer.!£ rights under this title,
including, but not limited to, any right to a remedy or means of enforcement, shall be deemed
contrary to public policy and shall be void and unenforceable. This section shall not prevent a
consumer from declining to request Information from a business, declining to opt-out of a
business's sale of the consumer's personal information, or authorizing a business to sell or share
the consumer's personal information after previously 013ting eut opting-out.
SEC. 24, Section 1798.199.10 et seq. are added to the Civil Code to read as follows:

Establishment of California Privacy Protection Agency
'1798.199,10. (a} There Is hereby established in state government the California Privacy
Protection Agency, which is vested with full administrative power, authority, and Jurisdiction
to Implement and enforce the Callfornla Consumer Privacy Act. The Agency shall be governed
by a five-member board, including the Chair. The Chair and one member of the board shall be
appointed by the Governor. The Attorney General, Senate Rules Committee, and Speaker of
the Assembly shall each appoint one member. These appointments should be made from
among Californians with expertise In the areas of privacy, technology, and consumer rights,
45

Amendments to Version 3

(b} The Initial appointments to the Agency shall be made within 90 days of the effective date
of the Act adding this section.
1798.199.15. Members of the Agency board shall:
(a} have qualiffcotians, experience and ski/ls, in particular In the areas of privacy and
technology, required to perform the duties of the Agency and exercise its powers;
(b} maintain the confidentiality of information which has come to their knowledge in the
course of the performance of their tasks or exercise of their powers, except to the extent that
disclosure is required by the Pub/le Records Act;
(c} remain free from external influence, whether direct or Indirect, and shall neither seek nor
take instructions from another;
(d} refrain from any action incompatible with their duties and engaging in any Incompatible
occupation, whether gainful or not, during their term;
(e} have the right of access to all Information made available by the Agency to the Chair;
(fJ be precluded, for a period of one year after leaving office, from accepting employment with

a business that was subject to an enforcement action or civil action under this Title during the
member's tenure or during the five-year period preceding the member's appointment; and
(g} be precluded for a period of two years after leaving office, from acting, for compensation,
as an agent or attorney for, or otherwise representing any other person in a matter pending
before the Agency If the purpose is to Influence an action of the Agency.
1798.199.20. Members of the Agency board, including the Chair, shall serve at the pleasure of
their appointing authority but shall serve for no longer than eight consecutive years.
1798.199.25. For each day on which they engage In official duties, members of the Agency
board shall be compensated at the rate of one hundred dollars ($100}, adjusted biennially to
reflect changes In the cost of living, and shall be reimbursed for expenses Incurred In
performance of their official duties.
1798.199.30. The Agency board shall appoint an executive director who shall act In accordance
with Agency policies and regulations and with applicable law. The Agency shall appoint and
discharge officers, counsel, and employees, consistent with applicable civil service laws, and
shall fix the compensation of employees and prescribe their duties. The Agency may contract
for services that cannot be provided by Its employees.
1798.199.35. The Agency board may delegate authority to the Chair or the executive director
to act In the name af the Agency between meetings of the Agency, except with respect to
resolution of enforcement actions and rulemak/ng authority.
1798.199,40. The Agency shall perform the following functions:
(a} Administer, Implement, and enforce through administrative actions, Title 1.81.5
(commencing with Section 1798.100} to Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code.
(b} On and after the earlier of July l, 2021, or within six months of the Agency providing the
Attorney General with notice that it is prepared to assume rulemaking responsibilities under
this title, adopt, amend, and rescind regulations pursuant to Section 1798.185 to carry out the
46

Amendments to Version 3

purposes and provisions of the California Consumer Privacy Act, including regulations
specifying record keeping requirements for businesses to ensure compliance with this title.
(c) Through the Implementation of this title, protect the fundamental privacy rights of natural
persons with respect to the use of their personal information.
(d) Promote public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, responsibilities,
safeguards, and rights In relation to the collection, use, sale and disclosure of personal
Information, Including the rights of minors with respect to their own information, and provide
a public report summarizing the risk assessments filed with the Agency pursuant to paragraph
(15) of subdivision (a) of Section 1798.185 while ensuring that data security Is not
compromised.
(e) Provide guidance to consumers regarding their rights under this title.
(f) Provide guidance to businesses regarding their duties and responsibilities under this title,
and appoint a Chief Privacy Auditor to conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with
this title pursuant to regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph (18) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1.798.1.85.
(g) Provide technical assistance and advice to the Legislature, upon request, with respect to
privacy-related legislation.
(h) Monitor relevant developments relating to the protection of personal Information, ond In
particular, the development of Information and communication technologies and commercial
practices.
(i) Cooperate with other agencies with Jurisdiction over privacy laws and with data processing

authorities In California, other states, territories, and countries to ensure consistent
application of privacy protections.
(j) Establish a mechanism pursuant to which persons doing business In California that do not

meet the definition of business set forth In paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of subdivision (d) of
section 1798.140 may voluntarily certify that they are in compliance with this title, as set forth
In paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 1798.140, and make a list of such entitles
ova/fable to the pub/le.
(k) Solicit, review, and approve applications for grants to the extent funds are available
pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) of Section 1.798,1.60.
(I) Perform all other acts necessary or appropriate In the exercise of its power, authority, and
Jurisdiction, and seek to balance the goals of strengthening consumer privacy while giving
attention to the impact on businesses,

1798.199.45. Upon the sworn complaint of any person or on Its own initiative, the Agency may
investigate possible violations of this title relating to any business, service provider,
contractor, or person. The Agency may decide not to Investigate a complaint or decide to
provide a business with a time-period to cure the alleged violation. In making a decision not
to investigate or provide more time to cure, the Agency may consider: (a) the lack of Intent to
violate this title; and (b) voluntary efforts undertaken by the business, service provider,
contractor, or person to cure the alleged violation prior to being notified by the Agency of the
complaint. The Agency shall notify in writing the person who mode the complaint of the
action, If any, the Agency has taken or plans to take on the complaint, together with the
reasons for such action or non-action.
47

Amendments to Version 3

1798.199.50, No finding of probable cause to believe this title has been violated shall be made
by the Agency unless, at least 30 days prior to the Agency's consideration of the alleged
violation, the business, service provider, contractor, or person alleged to have violated this
title Is notified of the violation by service of process or registered mall with return receipt
requested, provided with a summary of the evidence, and Informed of their right to be present
In person and represented by counsel at any proceeding of the Agency held for the purpose of
considering whether probable cause exists for believing the person violated this title. Notice
to the alleged vialator shall be deemed made on the date of service, the date the registered
mail receipt Is signed, or If the registered mail receipt is not signed, the date returned by the
post office. A proceeding held for the purpose of considering probable cause shall be private
unless the alleged violator flies with the Agency a written request that the proceeding be
public.
1798.199,55. (a} When the Agency determines there Is probable cause for believing this title
has been violated, It shall hold a hearing to determine if a violation has or violations have
occurred. Notice shall be given and the hearing conducted in accordance with the
Administrative Procedure Act {Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500}, Part 1, Division 3,
Title 2, Government Code). The Agency shall have all the powers granted by that chapter. If
the Agency determines on the basis of the hearing conducted pursuant to this subdivision that
a violation or violations have occurred, it shall Issue an order that may require the violator to
do all or any of the following:
{1} Cease and desist violation of this title.
(2) Subject to Section 1798,155, pay an administrative fine of up to two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500} for each vlolatlon, or up to seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500} for
each Intentional violation and each violation Involving the personal Information of minor
consumers to the Consumer Privacy Fund within the General Fund of the state. When the
Agency determines that no violation has occurred, It shall publish a declaration so stating.
{b) If two or more persons are responsible for any violation or violations, they shall be Jointly
and severally liable.
1798.199.60. Whenever the Agency rejects the decision of an administrative law judge made
pursuant to Section 11517 of the Government Code, the Agency shall state the reasons In
writing for rejecting the decision.
1798.199.65. The Agency may subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance and testimony,
administer oaths and affirmations, take evidence and require by subpoena the production of
any books, papers, records or other Items material to the performance of the Agency's duties
or exercise of Its powers, Including but not limited to Its power to audit a business's
compliance with this title.
1798.199. 70. No administrative action brought pursuant to this title alleging a violation of any
of the provisions of this title shall be commenced more than five years after the date on which
the via/at/on occurred.
(o} The service of the probable cause hearing notice, as required by Section 1798.199.50, upon
the person alleged to have violated this title shall constitute the commencement of the
administrative action.
{b) If the person alleged to have violated this title engages In the fraudulent concealment of
11/s or her acts or identity, the five-year period shall be tolled for the period of the
48

Amendments to Version 3

concealment. For purposes of this subdivision, '1raudulent concealment" means the person
knows of material facts related to their duties under this title and knowingly conceals them in
performing or omitting to perform those duties, for the purpose of defrauding the public of
Information to which It Is entitled under this title.
(c) If, upon being ordered by a superior court to produce any documents sought by a subpoena
In any administrative proceeding under this title, the person alleged ta have violated this title
fails to produce documents In response to the order by the date ordered to comply therewith,
the five-year period shall be tolled for the period of the delay from the date of filing of the
motion to compel until the date the documents are produced.
1798.199.75. (a) In addition to any other ova/fable remedies, the Agency may bring a civil

action and obtain a judgment in superior court for the purpose of collecting any unpaid
administrative fines imposed pursuant to this title after exhaustion ofJudicial review of the
Agency's action. The action may be filed as a small claims, limited clvil, or un/lmlted civil case,
depending on the Jurisdictional amount. The venue for this action shall be in the county where
the administrative fines were imposed by the Agency. In order to obtain a judgment In a
proceeding under this section, the Agency shall show, following the procedures and rules of
evidence as applied in ordinary civil actions, all of the fol/owing:
(1.} That the administrative fines were imposed fol/owing the procedures set forth in this title

and implementing regulations.
(2} That the defendant or defendants In the action were notified, by actual or constructive
notice, of the imposition of the administrative fines.
(3) That a demand for payment has been made by the Agency and full payment has not been
received.
{b} A civil action brought pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be commenced within four years
after the date on which the administrative fines were Imposed.
1798.199.80. (a) If the time for Judicial review of a final Agency order or decision has lapsed, or

if all means ofJudicial review of the order or decision have been exhausted, the Agency may
apply to the clerk of the court for a judgment to collect the administrative fines Imposed by
the order or decision, or the order as modified In accordance with a decision on Judicial review.
{b} The application, whii;h shall include a certified copy of the order or decision, or the order as
modified in accordance with a decision on judicial review, and proof of service of the order or
decision, constitutes a sufficient showing to warrant issuance of the judgment to collect the
administrative fines. The clerk of the court shall enter the Judgment immediately in
conformity with the application.
(c} An application made pursuant to this section shall be made to the clerk of the superior
court in the county where the administrative fines were imposed by the Agency.
{d} A Judgment entered in accordance with this section has the same force and effect as, and is
subject to all the provisions of law relating to, a judgment in a civil action and may be
enforced in the same manner as any other Judgment of the court in which it is entered.
(e) The Agency may bring an application pursuant to this section only within four years after
the date on which all means of judicial review of the order or decision have been exhausted.

49

Amendments to Version 3

(fJ The remedy available under this sect/an Is In addition to those available under any other

law.
1798,199.85, Any decision of the Agency with respect to a complaint or administrative fine
shall be subject to Judicial review in an action brought by an interested party to the complaint
or administrative fine and shall be subject to an abuse of discretion standard.
1798,199.90. (a} Any business, service provider, contractor, or other person that violates this
title shall be subject to an injunction and I/able for a civil penalty of not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500} for each violation or seven thousand five hundred
dollars ($7,500} for each Intentional violation and each violation involving the personal
Information of minor consumers, as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1798.185, which shall be assessed and recovered In a civil action brought In the name
of the people of the State of California by the Attorney General, The court may consider the·
good faith cooperation of the business, service provider, contractor, or other person In
determining the amount of the civil penalty.
{b} Any civil penalty recovered by an action brought by the Attorney General for a violation of
this title, and the proceeds of any settlement of any said action, shall be deposited in the
Consumer Privacy Fund.
(c} The Agency shall, upon request by the Attorney General, stay an administrative action or
Investigation under this title to permit the Attorney General to proceed with an Investigation
or civil action, and shall not pursue an administrative action or investigation, unless the
Attorney General subsequently determines not to pursue an investigation or civil action. The
Agency may not limit the authority of the Attorney General to enforce this title.
(d} No civil action may be filed by the Attorney General under this Section for any violation of
this title after the Agency has Issued a decision pursuant to Section 1798.199.85 or an order
pursuant to Section 1798.199.55 against that person for the same violation.
(e} This section shall not affect the private right of action provided for In Section 1798,150,
1798.199.95. (a} There Is hereby appropriated from the General Fund of the state to the
Agency the sum of five ml/lion dollars {$5,000,000} during the fiscal year 2020-2021, and the
sum of ten million dollars ($10,000,000} adjusted for cost-of-living changes, during each fiscal
year thereafter, for expenditure to support the operations of the Agency pursuant to this title.
The expenditure of funds under this appropriation shall be subject to the normal
administrative review given to other state appropriations. The Legislature shall appropriate
such additional amounts to the Commission and other agencies as may be necessary to carry
out the provisions of this title.
{b} The Department of Finance, in preparing the state budget and the Budget Bill submitted to
the Legislature, shall Include an Item for the support of this title, which item shall indicate all
of the fol/owing: (1) the amounts to be appropriated to other agencies to carry out their
duties under this title, which amounts shall be In augmentation of the support Items of such
agencies; and (2} the additional amounts required to be appropriated by the Legislature to the
Agency to carry out the purposes of this title, as provided for In this section; and {3} in
parentheses, for informational purposes, the continuing appropriation during each fiscal year
of ten mil/Ion dollars {$10,000,000}, adjusted for cost-of-living changes made pursuant to this
section.
50

Amendments to Version 3

(c} The Attorney Generol shall provide staff support to the Agency until such time as the
Agency has hired its own staff. The Attorney General shall be reimbursed by the Agency for
these services.

1798.199.100. The Agency and any court, as applicable, shall consider the good faith
cooperation of the business, service provider, contractor, or other person In determining the
amount of any administrative fine or civil penalty for a violation of this title. A business shall
not be required by the Agency, a court, or otherwise to pay both an administrative fine and a
civil penalty for the same violation.
SEC. 25. Amendment.

(a) The provisions of this Act may be amended after its approval by the voters by a statute that
Is passed by a vote of a majority of the members of each house of the Legislature and signed by
the Governor, provided that such amendments are consistent with and further the purpose and
intent of this Act as set forth in Section 3, including amendments to the exemptions in Section
1798.145 if the laws upon which the exemptions are based are amended to enhance privacy and
are consistent with and further the purposes and intent of this Act and amendments to address
a decision of a California state or federal court holding that a provision of the Act Is
unconstitutional or preempted by federal law, provided that any further amendments to
legislation that addresses a court holding shall be subject to this subdivision.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 1798.199.25, the Legislature may authorize additional
compensation for members of the California Consumer Privacy Agency, If It determines that It is
necessary to carry out the Agency's functions, by a statute that is passed by a vote of a majority
of the members of each house of the Legislature and signed by the Governor.
(c) This section applies to all statutes amended or reenacted as part ofthis Act, and all
provisions of such statutes, regardless of whether this Act makes any substantive change
thereto.
(d) The provisions of this Act shall prevail over any conflicting legislation enacted after January 1,
2020. Any amendments to this Act or any legislation that conflicts with any provision of this Act
shall be null and void upon passage of this Act by the voters, regardless of the code in which it
appears. Legislation shall be considered "conflicting" for purposes of this subdivision, unless the
legislation is consistent with and furthers the purpose and intent of this Act as set forth in
Section 3.
SEC, 26. Severablllty.

If any provision of this measure, or part of this measure, or the application of any provision or
part to any person or circumstances, Is for any reason held to be invalid, the remaining
provisions, or applications of provisions, shall not be affected, but shall remain in full force and
effect, and to this end the provisions of this measure are severable. If a court were to find in a
final, unreviewable Judgment that the exclusion of one or more entities or activities from the
applicability of the Act renders the Act unconstitutional, those exceptions should be severed and
the Act should be made applicable to the entities or activities formerly exempt from the Act. It
Is the intent of the voters that this Act would have been enacted regardless of whether any
invalid provision had been included or any invalid application had been made.

51

Amendments to Version ii

SEC. 27. Conflicting Initiatives.
(a) In the event that this measure and another measure addressing consumer privacy shall
appear on the same statewide ballot, the provisions of the other measure or measures shall be
deemed to be In conflict with this measure. In the event that this measure receives a greater
number of affirmative votes than a measure deemed to be in conflict with It, the provisions of
this measure shall prevall ln their entirety, and the other measure or measures shall be null and
void.
(b) If this measure is approved by the voters but superseded by law by any other conflicting
measure approved by voters at the same election, and the conflicting ballot measure is later
held Invalid, this measure shall be self-executing and given full force and effect.

SEC, 28, Standing.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, If the State or any of its officials fail to defend the
constitutionality of this Act, following its approval by the voters, any other government agency
of this State shall have the authority to intervene in any court action challenging the
constitutionality of this Act for the purpose of defending its constitutionality, whether such
action is In state or federal trial court, on appeal, or on discretionary review by the Supreme
Court of California and/or the Supreme Court of the United States. The reasonable fees and
costs of defending the action shall be a charge on funds appropriated to the California
Department of Justice, which shall be satisfied promptly.

SEC. 29. Construction.
This Actshall be liberally construed to effectuate its purposes.

SEC. 30. Savings Clause,
This Act is intended to supplement federal and state law, where permissible, but shall not apply
where such application is preempted by, or in conflict with, federal law, or the California
Constitution. The provisions of the Act relating to children under 16 years of age shall only apply
to the extent not in conflict with Children's Online Privacy Protection Act.

SEC, 31. Effective and Operative Dates.
(a) This Act shall become effective as provided In subdivision (a) of section 10 of article II of the
California Constitution. Except as provided In subdivision (b), this Act shall become operative
January 1, 2023, and with the exception of the right of access, shall only apply to personal
information collected by a business on or after January 1, 2022,
(b) Subdivisions (m) and (n) of Section 1798.145, Sections 1798.160, 1798.185, 1798.199.10
through 1798.199.40, and 1798.199.95, shall become operative on the effective date of the Act.
(c) The provisions of the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, amended or reenacted by this
Act, shall remain in full force and effect and shall be enforceable until the same provisions of
this Act become operative and enforceable.
(00391006)

52

