Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
NATION RELIGION KING
rrrtsss

Royal Government of Cambodia
No. 59 ANK/BK

Sub Decree
on
Code of Ethics for Nurses
393

THE ROYAL GOVERNMENT
-

-

-

Having seen the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
Having seen the Royal Decree NS/RKT/0913/903 dated 24 September, 2013 on
the appointment of the Royal Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
Having seen the Royal Decree NS/RKT/1213/1393 dated 21 December, 2013,
on the revision and supplement of the Governmental Compositions of the
Kingdom of Cambodia;
Having seen the Royal Kram No. 02/NS/94 dated 20 July, 1994, promulgated
the law on organizing and functioning of the Council of Ministers;
Having seen the Royal Kram NS/RKM/0196/06 dated 24 January, 1996
promulgated the law on establishment of the Ministry of Health;
Having seen the Royal Kram NS/RKM/1100/10 , dated 3rd November, 2000
promulgated the Law on the Management of Private Medical, Paramedical,
Medical Aide Profession;
Having seen the Royal Decree NS/RKT/0807/373, dated 17 August, 2007 on the
establishment of Cambodian Council of Nurses,

-

Having seen Sub-Decree No. 67 ANK/BK dated 22 October, 1997 on the organizing
and functioning of the Ministry of Health;

-

Having seen the Sub-Decree No. 94 ANK/BK, dated 11 September, 2002 on the
procedure and conditions for authorizing foreigner(s) to practice his private
profession in medical, paramedical, medical aide professional in the Kingdom of
Cambodia;

-

Having seen the endorsement of Council of Ministers’ Plenary Meeting on 25
January, 2014;

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD
HEREBY DECIDES:

CHAPTER I
General Provisions

Article 1:
This Sub-decree aims to promote the professional moral, dignity, honesty,
effectiveness and discipline of works in nursing profession, particularly obtaining the
public’s confidence.
Article 2:
The objective of this Sub-decree is to define the provisions of the code of ethics
for professional nurses of the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Article 3:
The scope of this Sub-decree shall cover every nurse who is authorized by the
Ministry of Health to practice nursing profession.
Article 4:
The definitions of key terminologies that are used in this Sub-decree are as
following:
Nurse: refer to a legal person who holds diploma of nurse issued by Ministry of
Health of the Kingdom of Cambodia or the diploma issued by educational
establishment which its education quality is accredited by the Educational
Accreditation Committee of Cambodia.
Nursing Profession: refers to nursing services for all ages, family’s member and to
provide nursing service at the community and health care facility. Nursing care shall
include health promotion, prevention of the diseases, taking care of the patients, taking
care of disabled person and dying patient before and after dead.
Nursing Facility: refer to a place where nurse practice nursing profession such as
hospital, health center, clinic, private clinic that accredited or authorized by the
competence authority.
CHAPTER II
Duties and Responsibility of Nurse
Article 5:
To accomplish her/his duties and responsibility, nurse shall:
1. practice her/his job with compassion, sympathy, good behavior,
politeness, correctness and concentration toward patient;
2. respect the life, physical body, honor and dignity of the patient;
3. nursing service shall be provided fairly to all without discrimination and

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

4. regardless of economic status, or patient’s society, nationality, race, sex,
language, religion, culture, political tendency or status of diseases;
5. be accountable when providing diagnostic work and implementation of
nursing care service to patients;
6. be accountable when transfer nursing service to another nurse or health
staff and make sure that the transfer of duty is safe for patient;
7. comply with the existing law, regulations, national guidelines and
national protocol that are related to nursing profession;
8. at all circumstances, nurse shall have to strictly comply with nursing
professional freedom;
9. be effectively participate in implementation of national strategic policy
and collaboration in nursing professional practice aiming to improve
client’s health;
10. provide a safe and effective nursing care. In case of emergency, nurse
need to co-operate with other related health groups and other section
aiming to ensure that the danger which may harm the patient is mitigated;
11. develop themselves by participating in leadership training and
continuous education and conduct research for obtaining new
information;
12. Nursing profession shall be developed through participation and
improvement of national protocol, national guideline and other related
regulations;
13. Professional confidentiality and other regulations that related to patients’
health condition, diagnoses and other personal and private information,
patient’s dignity and honor shall be respected;
14. Patients’ rights for choosing any nurse shall be respected and provide
intervention to assist patient at their request;
15. Respect the request of the patient for acceptance or objection of nursing
care;
16. provide advice and protection of the rights of patient, patient’s family and
community who involve in nursing care of patient, participate in health
promotion, rehabilitation and protection;
17. to provide good nursing care which does not have negative affect to
patient, nurses must protect and take good care of theirs health;
Article 6:
Nurse shall provide drugs following the prescription or national guideline
issued by the Ministry of Health.
Article 7:
Nurse shall always stay close to the patients. In case that patient fall in danger,

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

nurse(s) must provide emergency rescue or provide primary rescue and then refer to an
appropriate health service as require.
Article 8:
To provide good services and responsibility, nurse shall apply the following
duty:
1. Shall not perform any activity that may affect the honor, privilege, and
dignity of nursing profession;
2. Shall not use her/his influence for obtaining contract, privilege, rights and
benefits from patient(s);
3. Shall not conduct any activity for tip;
4. Shall not perform nursing in public area except emergency rescue;
5. Shall not use any certificate that is related to nursing profession;
6. Shall not charge service fees more than the service fee that has been
determined, or provide fraudulent information relating to her/his owned
service fee;
7. Shall not use nick name when practice her/his nursing profession;
8. Shall not publicly advertise her/his nursing care service without permission
of the Capital-Provincial Council of Nurses;
9. Shall not disclose patient’s Identity via public advertisement or for serving
the purpose of medical advertisement without consent of the patient;
10. Shall not provide any service or counseling on nursing profession that are not
under her/his responsibility except emergency thereof;
11. Shall not conduct any dishonest behavior such as deceiving patient,
demanding for money or valuable property from patient or fraudulent
information of the patient;
Article 9:
The sitting nurse who is mandated by election or having an official position shall
not use her/his position to attract client;
CHAPTER III
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NURSE AND CLIENT
Article 10:
In the case that the patient, patient’s family, parents, guardian or legal
representative deny the nursing care service, nurse shall have to abide with their
request for denial, but can explain the consequence that may happen.
Article 11:
Nurse shall have to notify about the health situation of the patient or the

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

development of the diseases.
Article12:
Nurse may refuse not to provide nursing care to patient by her/his professional
reason or personal reason except case of emergency. If the nursing service is denied,
nurse must refer the patient to another service which is safe.
Article 13:
Nurse who take care of a minor or incapable person whose age is 18 and about
must notice her/his parents or guardian or legal representative and must seek their
consent before provide nursing service.
In case of emergency which may cause to the loss of life, even though there is not
possible to contact them (parent, guardian...), nurse must provide certain service with
the consent of their health colleague who are present on site. If the patient can talk,
nurse must consider about his/her suggestion.
Article 14:
Nurse shall provide special care for minor or incapable person whose age is 18
and above if the patient does not receive appropriate care or health benefit and rights
health to care. In this case, nurse shall have to notify to competence authority at their
earliest possibility.
Article 15:
Nurse or nursing care facility shall display the price of their service fee on
counseling and other nursing cares except emergency rescue.
Article 16:
In case that there is incident happening at public area, nurse shall not leave
(ignore) the injured, unless otherwise, an order from competence authority in
accordance with the laws.
Article 17:
Nurse shall not interfere in family’s business or in patient’s personal life if it is
not related to nursing profession.

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

CHAPTER IV
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NURSES AND THEIR CO-WORKERS,
AND BETWEEN NURSES AND OTHER HEALTH PROFESSIONAL
Article 18:
Nurse shall maintain good relationships among themselves and between other
health professionals by extend their support to each other for the benefit of public
health care, community’s welfare and their work-place.
Nurse shall behave with respect other nurses, students, their co-workers, and
other health professionals. The respects of their co-workers which include, but not
limited to, acknowledgement, absorb (learning new) knowledge, experience and their
expertise.
Article 19:
Nurse shall practice her/his duty by collaboration or in some circumstance nurse
should seek for advice or request for assistant of other nurses or assistant from a
specialist physician, except that the duty is contrary to their nursing profession.
Article 20:
When nurse receive a handover of duty of care from another nurse:
-

Alternate nurse shall get consent of patient in advance before providing care
service;
Alternate nurse shall contact with the previous nurse to seek for suggestion
and or advice before give nursing care;
When the alternative duty of care is finished, the alternate nurse must stop all
her/his activity of care, but provide specific information to previous nurse to
continue her/his duty of nursing care;

Article 21:
Nurse shall manage and be responsible for internship student who are practicing
their profession in her/his workplace.
Article 22:
Nurse shall not, and at any time, establish group or network aiming to
discriminate their co-workers.
Article 23:
Nurse shall not do anything that may affect the dignity of another nurse.

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

CHAPTER V
NURSING PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE
Article 24:
Nurse may print her/his personal identity and information as the following:
1. Sure name and given name, qualification, registered number certified by the
Cambodian Council of Nurses; address of professional practice facility,
telephone/fax number, email address, homepage, date and time of nursing
service delivery;
2. Sure names and given names of other nurses, if the nurses are practicing their
nursing profession in group work.
Article 25:
Some certifications that nurse or nursing care facility is authorized to scrip on the
advertising board are included:
1. Sure name and given name, registered number certified by the Cambodian
Council of Nurses; address of professional practice facility, telephone/fax
number, email address, homepage;
2. Sure names and given names of other nurses, registered numbers of those nurses
who practice their profession at the said nursing care facility with the
Cambodian Council of Nurses.
3. Display price list of nursing care service.
Article 26:
Nurse is authorized to practice her/his profession at private enterprise as private
nurse. If nurse works for both, state and private institutions, her/his private work must
not interfere with her/his job at the state institution.
Article 27:
Nurse who provides nursing care service and have problem with patient who is
receiving her/his nursing care service, s/he shall not be sitting as member in the
disciplinary committee.
Nurse who works at the same nursing care enterprise or blood-relative or spouse
or relative by marriage of the third of kin of the nurse or have relationship with the
nurse who is under disciplinary sanction shall not be sitting as member of the discipline
committee.
Article 28:
Nurse who is member of the discipline committee shall be independent.

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

Nurse shall not bias when presenting the grounds or making conclusion of the
case in which s/he has investigated.
Article 29:
Monitoring nurse shall not interfere with, or change nursing practice, unless
otherwise, stipulated by law.
Article 30:
Monitoring nurse shall respect professional confidence pursuance with the
existing regulations. Reports or documents indicate the patient’s identity or nurse’s
identity shall not present to a non-related institution or publics.
CHAPTER VI
OTHER PROVISIONS
Article 31:
When register with the Cambodian Council of Nurses, all nurses must declare
before the board of the capital-provincial council of nurses that s/he has fully
understood all provisions of this sub-decree on the code of ethics for nurses and
promise in writing that s/he will strictly comply with this code of ethics.
Article 32:
Nurse who intentionally provides inappropriate or incomplete certification to the
Capital-Provincial Council of Nurses shall lead to disciplinary action.
Article 33:
Nurse who stop practicing her/his profession or changing the conditions of the
professional business must notify the Capital-Provincial Council of Nurses. After
acknowledging the receipt of the notice, the Capital-Provincial Council of Nurses shall
notify the National Council of Nurses.
Article 34:
Any decision made by each Council of Nurses, in accordance with this subdecree, shall be with a clear reason.
Article 35:
In case of objection with the decision made by the Board of the Capital-Provincial
Council of Nurses, patient who received nursing care service or nurse who deliver

Un-Official Translation
by JICA-HRD

nursing care service shall have 2 (two) months to request the Board of National Council
of Nurses to review the said decision.
Article 36:
In case that there is non-compliance with the provisions as stated in this code of
ethics, nurse shall be disciplined pursuant with the existing rules and regulations,
particularly, in pursuant with the article 28 of the Royal Decree on establishment of the
Cambodian Council of Nurses.
CHAPTER VII
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 37:
Any provision which contraries to this sub-decree shall be annulled.
Article 38:
The Minister in charge of the Council of Ministers, Minister of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, Minister of the Ministry of Health, Ministers of line ministries,
and Chairperson of relevant institutions shall implement this Sub-decree accordingly
from the date of signature.
Phnom Penh, February 11, 2014
The Prime Minister
Samdech Akka Moha Seina Padei Techo HUN SEN
Receivers:
-

Ministry of Royal Palace

-

Secretariat General of the Constitutional Council

-

Secretariat General of the Senate

-

Secretariat General of the National Assembly

-

Secretary General of the Royal Government

-

Cabinet of Samdech Prime Minister

-

Cabinet of H.E. Deputy Prime Ministers

-

As mentioned in article 38,

-

Royal Gazettes

-

File - archives

