UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

NS/RKM/1215/017

Royal Kram
We

Preahkaruna Preah Bath Samdech Preah Boromneath Norodom Sihamoni Samanphoum
Cheatsasna Rakhatkhateya Khemrarothreas Puthinthrea Thoreamohaksat Khemreachnea
Samohorpheas Kampuch Ekreachroathboranaksanteh Sopheakmongkulea Sereyvibolar
Khemarasreypireas Preah Chao Krong Kampuchea Thipadey

-

Having seen the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia;

-

Having seen Royal Decree No. NS/RKT/0913 dated 24 September 2013 on the
Appointment of the Royal Government of Cambodia;

-

Having seen Royah Kram No. 02/NS/94 dated 20 July 1994 Promulgated the Law on
Organization and Functions of the Council of ministers;

-

Having seen Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0196/20 dated 24 January 1996 Promulgated
the Law on the Establishment of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications;

-

Having seen the Proposal of Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen, the
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia

PROMULGATE
The law on telecommunications approved by the National Assembly on 30 Novemeber
2015 in the fifth session the National Assembly of the fifth ligislature and totally checked on
modalities and legal document by the Senate on 07 December 2015 in extraordinary session of
the third ligislature with the whole content as below:

1 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Law
On
Telecommunications

2 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CHAPTER ONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
The purposes of this Law are:
-

To ensure the utilization and provision of effective, safe, quality, reliable, and affordable
telecommunication infrastructure, networks and services in response to the needs of social
and economic development; and

-

To ensure the development and governance of the telecommunications sector, the regulation
of telecommunication operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector and
the lawful and fair competition in order to enhance the mobilization of national revenue and
to protect subscribers.

-

To ensure the protection of users and mobile revenues for National Budget.

Article 2
The objectives of this Law are to determine:
-

The authority of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications;

-

The establishment, functions and duties of the Telecommunication Regulator of Cambodia;

-

The classification and types of permits, certificates and licenses;

-

The control and utilization of infrastructure and networks;

-

The national telecommunication numbering plan and electronic address;

-

The standard, quality of services and telecommunication equipment, telecommunication
service tariffs and lawful and fair competition;

-

The universal services obligation, capacity building, research and development;

-

The rights of telecommunications operators, persons involved with the telecommunications
industry and subscribers and
3 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
-

The regulatory fines and criminal offenses in telecommunications sector

-

Rights of telecommunication operators and legal and fair competitions

-

Rights of users.

Article 3
This Law shall have the scope of applicability to all telecommunication operations in the
Kingdom of Cambodia.
Article 4
The terminological terms contained in this Law shall be defined in the glossary annexed herewith.
CHAPTER TWO
AUTHORITY OF THE MINISTRY OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Article 5
The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications is hereinafter referred to as “MPTC.”
MPTC has the following authority:
a- Formulate policies, development strategic plans and legal frameworks for regulation of
telecommunication operations as well as infrastructure and networks in the Kingdom of
Cambodia;
b- Be a signatory and representative of the Royal Government of Cambodia in the international
cooperation in the telecommunications sector;
c- Promote the development, utilization of the universal service obligation program and capacity
building, research and development plan;
d- Provide instruction and coordination on the issues relative to the telecommunications sector
to telecommunications operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector;

4 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
e- Promote and encourage compliance with the requirements of this Law;
f- Issue Prakas in relation to the following matters on the request of the Telecommunication
Regulator of Cambodia to be formed under Article 8, Part 1 of Chapter 3:
1. Requirements of granting, altering, suspending, transferring and withdrawing permits,
certificates or licenses;
2. Network interconnection among telecommunications operators;
3. Setting standard for the utilization of infrastructures and networks and providing
telecommunication services as well as standard of telecommunications equipment;
4. National telecommunication numbering plan and electronic address;
5. National frequency plan including terms of providing, allocating, altering, suspending,
transferring and withdrawing frequency license;
6. Lawful and fair competition activities of telecommunications operators and persons
involved with telecommunications sector;
7. Control of the systems and internet services;
g- Perform other duties as provided in this Law or other regulations.
Article 6
MPTC shall have competence to control telecommunications, information and communication
technology service data and newly established services in accordance with the technological development
in this sector. All telecommunications operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector
shall provide to MPTC the telecommunications, information and communication technology service data.
The function in the management of the telecommunications, information and communication
technology service data shall be determined by Prakas of MPTC.
Article 7
In the event of force majeure, MPTC or competent ministries or institutions may order relevant
telecommunications operators to take necessary measures by relying on the Decision of the Royal
Government.

5 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CHAPTER THREE
TELECOMMUNICATION REGULATOR OF CAMBODIA
PART ONE
ESTABLISHMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATION REGULATOR OF CAMBODIA
Article 8
The Telecommunication Regulator of Cambodia shall be established under this Law.
The Telecommunication Regulator of Cambodia is hereby referred to as “TRC.”
Article 9
TRC is headed by 1 (one) Chairperson having equal status as Secretary of State and a number of
members having equal status as Undersecretary of State as required.
The mandate of chairperson and members of TRC is 3 (three) years.
The candidacy of Chairperson shall be selected and proposed by the Minister of MPTC to the
head of the Royal Government of Cambodia. Chairperson of TRC shall hold a university degree, be
competent and possess appropriate qualifications to carry out their duties, as well as have at least 10 (ten)
years experiences in one or more fields related to telecommunications, information technology, law,
public administration, economics, commerce and other fields as per actual requirement.
PART TWO
FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF TELECOMMUNICATION REGULATOR OF CAMBODIA
Article 10
TRC has autonomy to perform its administrative, regulatory and financial duties and functions
and is independently from telecommunications operators and persons involved with the
telecommunication sector.
TRC has self-budget by considering as annex of MPTC’s budget.

6 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 11
Organization and functioning of TRC’s budget shall be determined by Sub-decree based on the
proposal of MPTC and Ministry of Economy and Finance in line with the Law on Public Financial
System and relevant applicable regulations.
Article 12
TRC shall have functions and duties as follows:
a- Perform regulatory function
pursuant to the policy and legal framework of
telecommunications sector and other applicable legal regulations of the Kingdom of
Cambodia;
b- Monitor and oversee the provision of telecommunications services
applicable regulations;
c- Propose, provide advice
telecommunications sector;

on amending Prakas

or

in accordance with

legal instruments

related to

d- Issue additional decision in certain cases as provided in Article 5, Item (f) of this Law;
e- Report and recommend to the Minister of MPTC on all matters in relation to the regulation,
development and monitoring of the telecommunications sector in the Kingdom of Cambodia;
f- Grant, alter, suspend, transfer and withdraw permits, certificates or licenses in accordance
with the provisions of this Law and other regulations;
g- Examine the application for permits, certificates or licenses and approve them based on the
requirements set in this Law and other regulations;
h- Examine documents required to be submitted to TRC in relation to an application for permits,
certificates or licenses to ensure the compliance with the requirements prescribed in this Law
and other regulations; and register the documents that duly meet the requirements;
i-

Examine the documents providing information on cost base management, financial report
audited by an independent auditor recognized by Ministry of Economy and Finance, as well
as the non-financial information submitted by operators and persons involved with the
telecommunications sector each fiscal year in order to ensure the compliance with
competition conditions as provided in this Law and other regulations;

j-

Act as a regulatory body and resolve disputes relating to the telecommunications operation as
provided under this Law and other regulations;
7 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
k- Pursue appropriate action as provided under this Law, in order to investigate and take
measures against all businesses that are illegal and go against the code of conduct, technical
requirements, and requirement of standard of quality of services and telecommunications
equipment stipulated in this Law and other regulations;
l-

Take lead role in the development of the code of conduct in the telecommunications sector.

Article 13
The organization and functioning of TRC shall be determined by a Sub-decree.
CHAPTER FOUR
PERMIT, CERTIFICATE AND LICENSE
Article 14
No person may conduct telecommunications operation or declare him/herself as operator or
persons involved with the telecommunications sector unless that person has obtained the permit,
certificate or license from TRC in accordance with the requirements set out in this Law and other
regulations.
PART ONE
REQIREMENTS FOR THE PERMIT, CERTIFICATE OR LICENSE
Article 15
Any person may apply for a permit from TRC to operate the following operations:
a- Importation, exportation, supply and distribution of telecommunication equipment;
b- Internet service business;
c- Sell and/or repair telecommunications equipment;
d- Publicize telecommunication book, and
e- Other operations to be defined by Prakas of MPTC based on the proposal of TRC.

8 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 16
Any person may apply for a certificate from TRC in order to carry out the following operations:
a- Acting as a certified qualified agent for import of telecommunications equipment,
b- Certified specific types of telecommunications equipment,
c- Other operations as defined by Prakas of MPTC based on the proposal of TRC.
Article 17
Any person may apply for a license from TRC in order to carry out the following operations:
a- Construction and/or providing services for utilization of infrastructures and networks and
supporting telecommunications infrastructure,
b- Providing telecommunications services,
c- Other operation as defined by Prakas of MPTC based on the proposal of TRC.
Article 18
Any telecommunications operator receiving instruction from TRC as provided under Article 78
Paragraph 1of this Law, to conform to the requirements or additional requirements of the license, shall
carry out the instruction within a specific period as determined by MPTC or additional decision of TRC.
PART TWO
PROCEDURE OF APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, CERTIFICATE OR
LICENSE
Article 19
The application for permit, certificate or license shall be in the process as follows:
a- A person may file an application for a permit, certificate or license to carry out the activities
as prescribed under Articles 15, 16 and 17 of this Law in accordance with the formalities and
requirements as set out by this Law and other regulations;
b- TRC, where deemed necessary, may require an applicant to supply further information and
may refuse to proceed with the application until such information is provided adequately.
9 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 20
A decision on the granting of a permit, certificate or license shall be under the following process:
a- TRC may grant a permit, certificate or license to an applicant to carry out activities as
prescribed under Articles 15, 16 and 17 of this Law if it is satisfied that the applicant meets
the requirements set out in this Law and other regulations;
b- During the validity of the permit, certificate or license, if any requirements as prescribed in
this Law and other regulations are varied, the granted permit, certificate or license shall be
complied with the new requirements. TRC shall inform telecommunications operators and
persons involved with the telecommunications sector within 1 (one) year period before such
variation is made to the requirements of permit, certificate or license;
c- TRC shall not refuse to grant an applicant a permit, certificate or license without giving a
prior written notice stating the reason thereof and the opportunity for applicant to provide
justification.
Article 21
TRC shall produce and maintain the registration list of all granted permits, certificates or licenses
in compliance with appropriate formalities by specifying any necessary information. Such formalities
shall be defined in Sub-decree on the organization and functioning of TRC.
TRC shall keep confidentiality of profession pertaining with telecommunication operation.
PART THREE
TRANSFER, SUCCESSION OR MERGER THROUGH SECURITY AND BANKRUPTCY
Article 22
Transfer through contract, succession, merger or security of rights defined under the permit,
certificate or license as stipulated under Chapter 4 of this Law shall be in accordance with legal
procedures and applicable laws.
Transfer through contract, succession, merger or security of rights as defined under the permit,
certificate or license as provided under Chapter 4 of this Law shall follow the same procedure of granting
permit, certificate or license.
In case any telecommunications operators or persons involved with the telecommunications
sectors wish to cease their operations, such operators or persons involved with the telecommunications
sectors shall provide a written notice to TRC at least 30 (thirty) before the date of terminating operation
10 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
by stating the reasons for such termination of the operation and to be signed by relevant
telecommunications operators, persons involved with the telecommunications sector or their
representative lawyers.
Article 23
In case of finding that telecommunication operators or persons involved with telecommunication
sector may be insolvent or financial issues in accordance with the assessment of independent auditors,
TRC has the rights to propose to the court after obtaining approval from MPTC to investigate bankruptcy
and appoint provisional governor in line with regulation on bankruptcy or relevant regulations. The
provisional governor who was appointed shall perform extra conditions in accordance with joint Prakas of
MPTC and the Ministry of Justice.
CHAPTER FIVE
INFRASTRUCTURES AND NETWORKS
Article 24
Telecommunication infrastructures and networks and supporting telecommunication
infrastructures shall fall under the competence of MPTC in accordance with applicable regulations.
Article 25
Telecommunication infrastructures and networks shall be for priority use on air, on the ground,
under the ground-, riverbed and seabed.
The planning for the development of the communication network, city center, residential centre,
industrial zone, special economic zone and the telecommunications and technology areas shall be also
integrated in the telecommunications infrastructure and network development plan.
Article 26
Pursuant to this Law and other regulations, train station, public bus station, port, airport, border
checkpoint, hospital and other public places may be determined as prioritized areas for accessing to public
telecommunications services.

11 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
PART ONE
LAND USED TO PROVIDE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
Article 27
The classification of land, constructions or buildings to be installed, constructed, or used for
infrastructures and networks, or telecommunications equipment shall be done in accordance with the
provisions of the Civil Code and other regulations.
Article 28
Telecommunications operators shall negotiate and obtain permission from the authorities before
installing cables and equipment on both private and public properties.
Telecommunications operators shall negotiate and enter into a contract with property owner in
compliance with this Law and other regulations before instilling cables and related equipment on private
property.
Article 29
Telecommunications operators may designate and enter the location for construction, installing
and/or maintaining infrastructures and networks or telecommunications equipment in order to study
technical specification after receiving approval from the owner.
Article 30
Land owner or constructer shall inform competent authorities and telecommunications operators
at least 15 days before digging private or public land to avoid any damages to telecommunication
infrastructure and network.
PART TWO
INTERCONNECTION AND USING OF SHARED NETWORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURES
Article 31
To ensure the efficiency of interconnection and administration of network and the competition in
the telecommunications sector, the telecommunications operators as referred to in Article 17 of this Law
shall:
a- Connect its telecommunication networks with other telecommunication networks;

12 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
b- As per the request, allow other telecommunications operators to utilize its telecommunication
services as described in item (a) of this Article on the request including the appropriate
content and conditions without any discrimination, and in accordance with the requirements
of technical and service quality standard, the principle of transparency and at affordable
price;
c- Ensure smooth interconnection with other telecommunications operators by avoiding any
blockage, barriers, or using any other means in the characteristics as stated in item (b) of this
Article;
d- Make the interconnection agreement with reference to the interconnection regulations
between telecommunications operators;
e- Submit the proposal on the telecommunications utilization as provided under item (a) of this
Article to TRC, in case both telecommunications operators cannot come into the agreement.
TRC shall have the final decision over the disputed content and conditions based on
regulation of content and conditions of such agreement as set out under this Law and other
regulations.
f- Inform TRC in writing on the approval or agreement within 15 days after having reached the
agreement between the relevant telecommunications operators;
g- Inform TRC in writing relating to item (a) of this Article upon request by TRC as well as
other information which TRC considers as necessary.
Article 32
To ensure the efficiency of interconnection and administration of networks, physical
infrastructures and the competition in the telecommunications sector, the telecommunications operators
as provided under item (a) under Article 17 of this Law shall:
a- Provide infrastructures service and networks and supporting telecommunication
infrastructures to the telecommunications operators as provided under Article 17 of this Law;
b- Provide the utilization of shared infrastructures and networks or equipment with the
telecommunications operators as provided under Article 17 of this Law, and
c- Comply with provisions as stipulated in Article 31 of this Law.

13 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 33
TRC shall produce and maintain the registration list of interconnection agreement and
fundamental agreement which the telecommunications operators have made in proper form as provided
by this Law and other regulations.
Article 34
MPTC shall lead and co-ordinate with the competent authorities on the formulation of plan of
physical infrastructures and shared networks in the telecommunications sector to ensure its consistency
the plan of telecommunication infrastructures, energy supply, public lighting, clean water supply, disposal
of liquid wastes, solid wastes and other infrastructures plans.
MPTC shall publish the regulations related to the utilization of physical infrastructures and shared
networks to telecommunications operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector.
Article 35
The utilization of the shared infrastructures and networks in relation to the communications and
telecommunications, energy supply, public lighting, clean water supply, disposal of liquid wastes and
solid wastes and other infrastructures shall be carried out in an effective manner to protect the landscape,
environment and public welfare, and complied with the urbanization plan.
The utilization of the shared infrastructures and networks in relation to the communications and
telecommunications, energy supply, public lighting, clean water supply, disposal of liquid wastes and
solid wastes and other infrastructures shall be defined by Sub-decree.
Article 36
TRC shall draw up additional requirements on the interconnection and utilization of the national
and international shared infrastructures in accordance with this Law and other regulations.
PART THREE
STANDARD, QUALITY OF SERVICES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Article 37
MPTC shall prepare the regulations on the national telecommunications standards and the
unification between national and international standards regarding the signal transmission and networks
which are able to complement each other’s operations, quality of services and the telecommunications
equipment. Types of telecommunications equipment which are under the national telecommunications
standards include infrastructures and networks equipment, radio communication equipment and
telecommunications equipment for users shall be determined by specific regulation.
14 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
TRC shall publish the standards of all telecommunications equipment.
Article 38
MPTC shall set criteria of standard of providing quality telecommunication services.
CHAPTER SIX
UNIVERSAL SERVICE OBLIGATION
Article 39
The universal service obligation program has purposes as follows:
a- Encourage the construction and development of telecommunications networks in the
Kingdom of Cambodia;
b- Promote the provision of basic telecommunications services, value added services and
emergency services more broadly into rural and remote areas, and
c- Reduce the digital divide for the social and economic development.
Article 40
The Royal Government shall by Sub-decree establish mechanism for implementing the universal
service obligation program based on non-discrimination, impartiality and transparency principles. The
mechanism shall determine the universal service obligation program as follows:
a- Establishment and administration of the universal service obligation fund;
b- Obligation or requirements provided under the license for telecommunications operators as
provided under the Article 17 of this Law;
c- Requirements for telecommunications operators or other person accessing to the universal
service obligation fund;
d- Procedure of accessing to the universal services obligation fund, and
e- Oversee, monitor, review and evaluate the implementation of the universal service obligation
program.

15 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 41
MPTC acts as an assistant of the Royal Government in creating, overseeing, reviewing and
evaluating the access to the universal service obligation fund in accordance with this Law and other
regulations.
Article 42
Universal service obligation fund may be originated from domestic or overseas sources.
Telecommunications operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector shall
participate to uphold the universal service obligation program by annually contributing fund of 2% of the
gross revenue into the universal service obligation fund.
CHAPTER SEVEN
CAPACITY BUILDING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Article 43
Mechanism for managing the capacity building, research and development plans as follows:
a- Establishment and administration of the capacity building, research and development fund;
b- Obligations or requirements provided under the license for telecommunications operators as
provided under the Article 17 of this Law;
c- Requirements for telecommunications operators or other person using the capacity building,
research and development fund;
d- Procedure of using the capacity building, research and development fund, and
e- Oversee, monitor, review and evaluate the implementation of the capacity building, research
and development plan.
Mechanism for managing the capacity building, research and development plans shall be defined
by Sub-decree.
Article 44
MPTC acts as an assistant of the Royal Government in creating, overseeing, reviewing and
evaluating of using the capacity building, research and development fund in accordance with this Law and
other regulations.
16 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 45
Telecommunications operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector shall
have its own plan for the capacity building, research and development in consistency with the
development of the technology at national and global levels.
Article 46
Telecommunications operators and persons involved with the telecommunications sector shall
participate to uphold the capacity building, research and development by annually contributing fund of
1% of the gross revenue into the capacity building, research and development fund.
CHAPTER EIGH
RADIO FREQUENCY RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Article 47
Radio frequency spectrum is a national resource which is not subjected for sale but is subjected
for leasing or authorized to use through the licensing in accordance with this Law and other regulations.
Radio frequency spectrum shall be under the management competence of MPTC. The
organization, management and allocation of radio frequencies spectrum shall be determined by Subdecree.
Article 48
MPTC shall plan national radio frequency spectrum. The National Radio Frequency Spectrum
Plan shall include the following contents:
a- Preparing table of allocating radio frequencies;
b- Access to radio frequency bandwidth and rules regarding the signal interference;
c- Monitor and evaluate on using radio frequency bandwidth.
TRC shall issue relevant regulations of settlement from license holder for using this radio
frequency in line with the Prakas of MPTC.
All individuals shall comply with the national radio frequency spectrum plan.

17 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
CHAPTER NINE
DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN AND ELECTRONIC ADDRESS
Article 49
MPTC shall have competence to oversee the national numbering plan and electronic address in
the Kingdom of Cambodia. Administering and designating of the national numbering plan, distributing
the telecommunications access code and allocating telecommunications numbers as well as the
emergency numbers and the electronic address shall be in accordance with this Law and other regulations.
Article 50
TRC shall instruct and publish the national numbering plan and the electronic address related to
the following issues to the telecommunications operators or persons involved with the
telecommunications sector:
a- Distribution of telecommunications access code, allocation of telecommunications numbers
and electronic address;
b- Transfer, return or revocation of the telecommunications access code and telecommunications
number as well as the electronic address;
c-

Fee of using the telecommunications access code, telecommunications number and
electronic address, and

d- Other additional issues to be determined by MPTC in accordance with the proposal of TRC.
Article 51
TRC shall instruct and publish to users the telecommunications numbers and electronic address
relating to the following issues:
a- Utilization, storing, changing or transferring telecommunication numbers;
b- Utilization, storing, changing or transferring telecommunication electronic and
c- Other additional issues to be determined by MPTC.

18 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 52
MPTC shall provide for the distribution and approve on the transfer of the telecommunications
access code and telecommunications numbers as well as the electronic address between the
telecommunications operators in accordance with the proposal of TRC as mentioned under Article 18 of
this Law. The distribution and approval shall comply with the principles of transparency and nondiscrimination.
Article 53
MPTC shall establish and possess the national numbering plan and telecommunications access
code as well as the electronic address together with the list of telecommunications operators as specified
under Article 17 of this Law. The formalities shall be defined by Prakas of MPTC.
TRC shall publicize the national telecommunication numbering plan and the list as provided
under first paragraph of this Article.
CHAPTER TEN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE TARIFFS AND COMPETITION
Article 54
MPTC has competence to regulate telecommunications service tariffs to ensure lawful and

fair competition.
Article 55
MPTC shall by Prakas regulate telecommunications service tariffs based on the request
of TRC in the followings:
a- Competition policy and regulations as well as other regulations;
b- Cost base, financial report drawn up by an independent auditor as well as nonfinancial information provided by telecommunications operators, and persons
involved with the telecommunications sector; and,
c- Other issues as determined by this Law and others applicable regulations.

19 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 56
TRC has authority to monitor and regulate telecommunications service tariffs. TRC shall
publish legal instruments related to telecommunications service tariffs in the following aspects:
a- Telecommunications service rates between licensees;
b- Telecommunications service rates between licensees and subscribers;
c- Formula of calculating telecommunications service cost base and formality of
providing cost base of this service; and,
d- Formality of bonus promotions for the telecommunications services shall base on the
principles of transparency, equality and appropriateness.
Article 57
MPTC has the rights to review the legal regulation on telecommunication service tariffs.
Article 58
Telecommunications operators shall not set telecommunications service tariffs lower than
the cost base as provided under item (c) of Article 56 of this Law.
Telecommunications operators shall provide the emergency services for free of charge.
TRC shall also take additional measures as prescribed in this Law and other regulations
to ensure lawful and fair competition.
Article 59
Telecommunications operators shall:
a- Publish the telecommunications service tariffs in accordance with item (a) of Article
56 of this Law; and,
b- Publish telecommunications service tariffs including the amended or varied tariffs in
accordance with item (b) of Article 56 of this Law.
20 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 60
TRC has authority to monitor, oversee and evaluate lawful and fair competition in the
telecommunications market and report to MPTC for additional provisions. To guarantee lawful
and fair competition, TRC shall ensure the following conditions are satisfied:
a- Support the access of users to reasonable price, good quality of service and multiple
options;
b- Promote the communication between holders of permits, certificates or licenses
equally and transparently;
c- Protect the permit, certificate or license holders from any harm as a result of illegal
and unfair competition; and,
d- Other competition conditions as set out by law and applicable regulation.
Article 61
All telecommunication operations shall be made to abide by the principles of fair, free,
equal, and effective competition.
All activities against the principles of fair, free, equal, and effective competition shall be
prohibited:
a- All gathering, agreement, consensus tacitly or in writing on performing operations,
hindering, restricting, and defaming market competition if those tasks were made for:
1) Hindering or limiting rights on telecommunication market competition of
telecommunication operators or persons involved with telecommunication
sector
2) Constraining free tariffs which may lead to rise or decrease the fee arbitrarily
3) Limiting partial or whole rights on managing telecommunication operations,
investment, or technical development or
4) Dividing telecommunication market or supply sources.

21 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

b. Any abuse of market primacy that has characteristics as prescribed in (a) which
affects a part or whole market by an operator or a group of operators or persons
involved with telecommunication sector which may affect operations or competitive
system. This abuse may be sales deny, conditional sales, discrimination sales, or
contract cancellation because the other party does agree with the unreasonable trade
terms
c. Any abuse dependence of any operator or person involved with telecommunication
sector which has characteristics as prescribed in (a) that affects operations and
competitive system. This abuse may be sales deny, conditional sales or discrimination
sales
d. Merger between telecommunication operators and persons
telecommunication sectors whose characteristics as prescribed in (a).

involved

with

Article 62
Any characteristics as stated in Article 61, Paragraph 2 (a) of this law shall be considered
as abusing the principles of fair, free, equal, and effective competition as in the following
activities:
a- An agreement to grant monopolistic rights to one or more
operators or on any operation to secure the monopolistic rights;

telecommunications

b- Provision of subsidies in any form and by all means, except permitted by regulations
based on the assessment and evaluation of TRC;
c- Using of trade secrets, technical, financial or non-financial confidential information
of telecommunications operators by another telecommunications operator or by
interested persons;
d- Failing to provide technical information concerning necessary equipment, and
commercial
information
by
telecommunications
operators
to
other
telecommunications operators or other interested persons;
e- Showing discrimination or refusal to provide services by telecommunications
operator to one or more telecommunications operators or persons involved in the
telecommunications sector, or other business partners, or users without taking into
account the scope of service, network capacity, facilities and duration for provision
of services, and other elements as determined by TRC;

22 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

f- Providing any service packages and/or productions, or sale with conditions
underlying the characteristic of illegal competition as defined by law and applicable
provision ; and,
g- Others activities as defined under the Law on Competition and other regulations.
Article 63
TRC shall grant
prior approval on the merger and acquisition or shares of the
telecommunications operators or collateral after receiving the request from the
telecommunications operators and subject to other conditions determined by MPTC based on this
Law and other regulations.
Merger, buying the other company or share or security is invalid if they haven’t obtained
approval from TRC.
In the case of financial constraints encountered by one or more telecommunications
operators, MPTC shall have rights to study on the possibility of merger and acquisition of shares
of the telecommunications operators on the request of TRC.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
RIGHTS OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATORS AND SUBSCRIBERS
Article 64
Telecommunications operators shall have basic rights as follows:
a- Rights to legal and fair competition based on provisions of this Law and other
regulations;
b- Rights to participate in consultation on the policy and regulations preparation
concerning the development of telecommunications sector;
c- Rights to set telecommunications service tariffs and billing to subscribers based on
the provisions of this Law and other regulations;
d- Rights related to rule of disconnection and/or suspension services in case there is no
billing settlement or breach of contract based on provisions of this Law and other
regulations;

23 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

e- Rights to compensation for
contract;

damages caused by subscribers in case of breach of

f- Rights to establish association and jointly develop the code of conduct based on the
Constitution and other regulations; and,
g- Other rights as prescribed by this Law and other regulations.
Article 65
Subscribers shall have basic rights as follows:
a- Rights to receive good quality of telecommunications services and related to
information of the service;
b- Rights to privacy, security and safety of using the telecommunications service,
excepted otherwise determined by other specific law;
c- Rights to participate in consultation related to the formulation of policies and
regulations concerning the development of telecommunications sector;
d- Rights to enquire to TRC concerning telecommunications sector;
e- Rights to access depute settlement mechanism between subscribers and
telecommunications operators, holders of permit or certificate as designated under
this Law and other regulations;
f- Right to indemnity for damages caused by telecommunications operators and related
person in case of the breach of contract;
g- Rights to association based on the Constitution and other regulations; and,
h- Other rights prescribed by other regulations.
Article 66
Establishment,
installation,
utilization,
and
modification of telecommunication
infrastructure and network or establishment, installation, and utilization of equipment in
telecommunication sector which may affect public order and lead to national insecurity are
prohibited.
24 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

CHAPTER TWELVE
DEPUTE SETTLEMENT
Article 67
In the event of any disputes relative to telecommunications sector between
telecommunications
operators
and
telecommunications
operators
and
between
telecommunications operators and subscribers, the parties shall refer it to TRC for mediation
before its submission to the court, except in the case of criminal offense.
Procedures of reconciliation shall be determined by MPTC. Service cost of dispute
settlement shall be determined by joint Prakas between MPTC and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance.
Article 68
The outcome of mediation effort shall be recorded by TRC, mentioning the agreement or
disagreement to compromise of both parties. The record shall be signed by TRC and the parties
and copied to all relevant parties.
The agreement made before TRC shall be valid to implement within 30 (thirty) days after
the date of receiving reconciliation record.
In case they do not agree to implement the agreement as in reconciliation record or in
case of there is no agreement, the dispute parties may refer to arbitration or file a complaint to
the court in accordance with applicable provisions.
In order to obtain the qualification as an arbitrator in telecommunication sector, the
arbitrator in term of provision on trade arbitration shall get additional training from MPTC. The
terms of this training shall be determined by Prakas of MPTC.
This Article shall not be applied to item (e) of Article 31 of this Law.
Article 69
In addition to the measures regulated by MPTC under the provision of this Law, in case
telecommunications operator or persons involved with the telecommunications sector violated
the provisions of this Law or other regulations, TRC may take any of the following actions:
a. Issue a warning letter;
25 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

b. Issue the directive to the person to compensate damages based on the
provisions of this Law and other regulations;
c. Request the competent court to order the person causing such damages to
comply with applicable provisions and to repair or compensate the damages;
d. Carry out administrative sanction. The administrative sanction and procedures
shall be additionally provided by MPTC;

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
TELECOMMUNICATION INSPECTION
Article 70
The minister of MPTC shall appoint telecommunication inspection officials to monitor,
study, check, and strengthen the enforcement of this law.
Telecommunication officials have duties and rights as below:
a- Technical inspection on telecommunication equipment, infrastructure and network
and telecommunication services
b- Study, observe, monitor, prevent, and crack down on telecommunication offenses
c- Take out data sample and telecommunication equipment which are the subject of
standard inspection and functions of telecommunication equipment and analyze and
verify the quantity of telecommunication services.
d- Confiscate the evidence and label and stamp evidence and
e- Perform other tasks assigned by the minister MPTC.
Article 71
Telecommunication inspection officials are appointed as judicial police officers to
monitor offenses as stated in this law by implement in accordance with Code of Criminal
Procedures.
26 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Modalities and procedures of appointment to telecommunication inspection officials shall
be defined by joint Prakas of the minister of economy and finance and the minister of MPTC.
Article 72
In the framework of operations related to checking and investigation on offenses as stated
in this law, the telecommunication inspection officials have the authority to check, confiscate
evidence, call on involved persons and perform other procedures in accordance with regulations
of Code of Criminal Procedures. In event that it is necessary to detain the suspects, the
telecommunication inspection officials shall have approval and be under direct leadership and
coordination of prosecutor.
Telecommunication inspection officials may request support from Sub-national
administration and armed force unit or other concerned competent authorities to join in cracking
down offenses stated in this law.
Article 73
Telecommunication inspection officials shall have uniform, symbols, and ranking signs.
During law implementation, telecommunication inspection officials shall mission order.
Uniform, symbols, and ranking signs of telecommunication inspection officials shall be
determined by Sub-decree.
Article 74
In the procession of telecommunication sector inspection, in case there are concrete
evidence or outcome of verification analysis show that telecommunication services and
equipment have technical conditions contradict to the standard determined by this law and other
regulations when requesting the list or any operation having characteristics opposing the
principles of legal competition as determined in this law and other regulations, the competent
telecommunication inspection officials take action to temporarily suspend the services, supplies,
distribution of telecommunication equipment and other operations related to offenses in order to
settle according to procedures.
Article 75
Any person who is not satisfied with any measure of telecommunication inspection
officials may file a complaint within 30 (thirty) days to MPTC starting from the date of receiving
decision.
27 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

The minister of MPTC shall decide on the complaint within 45 (forty five) days the
longest starting from the date of receiving the complaint.
In case the person is not satisfied with the decision of the minister of MPTC, the person
has the rights to file a lawsuit to other institutions of the royal government or the court according
the procedures.
Article 76
During implementing this law, in case the evidence of this offense is prohibited products
or dangerous, telecommunication inspection officials have the rights to request the prosecutor’s
ruling to destroy in line with applicable procedures.
The expenses on delivery, transport, protection, and destruction the evidence in the
process of implementing this law are the responsibilities of owner of the offense evidence. In
case the owner of offense evidence is not identified, all expenses are the responsibilities of state.
Article 77
Modalities and procedures of telecommunication inspection shall be determined by
Prakas of the minister of MPTC.
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
PENALTY PROVISIONS
Article 78
After getting license under this law, if having seen that telecommunication operators do
not comply with any condition of this license or any condition as defined by this law or other
regulations, TRC may take action as below:
a- Direct the telecommunication operators to comply with conditions or additional
conditions
b- Restrict on license
c- Suspend the license until that particular telecommunication operator fully complies
with conditions or additional conditions.

28 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

In case telecommunication operators offended against the regulations of this law or other
regulations, TRC may take actions as below:
a- Temporary suspend or terminate job of general manager, CEO, members of
management team or senior staff or telecommunication of operators
b- Recruit and authorize to capable persons to check business activities or related
activities of telecommunication operators. Those persons shall report to TRC inn
accordance with conditions as stated in contract with TRC or
c- Restrict or stop specific or general activities of telecommunication operators even
though those activities are in line with or oppose to conditions of license.
TRC may take actions as stated in Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2 unless
telecommunication operators have received written notice in advance to state the reasons of
taking this measure and provide chance to telecommunication operators to explain.
Article 79
Offenses in telecommunication sector which shall be punished the transactional fines
shall be defined by Sub-decree.
Transactional fine is the authority of MPTC.
Conditions, modalities, and procedures of transactional fines shall be defined by Prakas
of MPTC.
Article 80
Establishment, installation, or modification of telecommunication infrastructure and
network or establishment, installation and utilization of equipment in telecommunication sector,
if these acts lead to national insecurity, shall be sentenced in prison from 7 (seven) years to 15
(fifteen) years.
Article 81
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 80 shall be fined from
140,000,000 (one hundred and forty million) Riels to 300,000,000 (three hundred million) Riels
as well as one or more additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal
person) of Criminal Code.
29 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 82
Intentional destruction or damage on telecommunication infrastructure and network shall
be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) year to 5 (five) years and fined from 2,000,000 (two million)
Riels to 10,000,000 (ten million) Riels.
Offenses as stated in Paragraph 1 shall be sentenced in prison:
-

From 5 (five) years to 10 (ten) years if the act causes others injury

-

From 7 (seven) years to 15 (fifteen) years if the act leads to cutting limbs or
permanent disability

-

From 7 (seven) years to 15 (fifteen) years if the act is committed in group with
appointment

-

From 10 (ten) years to 20 (twenty) years if this act leads to one’s death intentionally.

Article 83
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 82 shall be fined from
20,000,000 (twenty million) Riels to 400,000,000 (four hundred million) Riels as well as one or
more additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of
Criminal Code.
Article 84
Establishment, installation, or modification of telecommunication infrastructure and
network or telecommunication equipment to cut off, disturb, or interfere telecommunication
infrastructure and network or affect public order shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) year to
5 (five) years and fined 2,000,000 (two million) Riels to 10,000,000 (ten million) Riels.
Article 85
Establishment of technical communication and information systems which are operated
with telecommunication network to use in the purpose of evading cash settlement or taking
advantage on the quantity of telecommunication services shall be sentenced in prison from 1
(one) year to 5 (five) years and fined from 2,000,000 (two million) Riels to 10,000,000 (ten
million) Riels.
30 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 86
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 84 and Article 85 shall be
fined from 20,000,000 (twenty million) Riels to 100,000,000 (one hundred million) Riels as well
as one or more additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person)
of Criminal Code.
Article 87
Using or letting someone else to use telecommunication services without proper
authorization in the purpose of evading cash settlement or taking advantage on the quantity of
telecommunication services shall be sentenced in prison from 6 (six) months to 3 (three) years
and fined 1,000,000 (one million) Riels to 6,000,000 (six million) Riels.
Article 88
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 87 shall be fined from
10,000,000 (ten million) Riels to 60,000,000 (sixty million) Riels as well as one or more
additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of Criminal
Code.
Article 89
Shall be sentenced in prison from 6 (six) days to 1 (one) month and fined from 1,000,000
(one million) Riels to 5,000,000 (five million) if:
a- Any act of operation as stated in Article 15 of this law without authorization from
TRC
b- Any act of operation as stated in Article 16 of this law without authorization from
TRC
Article 90
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 89 shall be fined from
10,000,000 (ten million) Riels to 50,000,000 (fifty million) Riels as well as one or more
additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of Criminal
Code.

31 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 91
Any act of operation as stated in Article 17 of this law without having license from TRC
shall be sentenced in prison from 6 (six) months to 3 (three) years and fined from 5,000,000 (five
million) Riels to 10,000,000 (ten million) Riels.
Article 92
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 91 shall be fined from
500,000,000 (five hundred million) Riels to 1,000,000,000 (one thousand million) Riels as well
as one or more additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person)
of Criminal Code.
Article 93
Any act of threatening to commit a crime or felony against other persons and if this threat
is committed again and again through telecommunication means with or without showing
identity shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) month to 6 (six) months and fined from
100,000 (one hundred thousand) to 1,000,000 (one million)
Offenses as stated in Paragraph 1 shall be sentenced in prison:
-

From 6 (six) month to 2 (two) years and fined 1,000,000 (one million) Riels to
4,000,000 (four million) if this act is ordered to fulfill any condition

-

From 6 (six) month to 2 (two) years and fined 1,000,000 (one million) Riels to
4,000,000 (four million) if this act is the threat of murder

-

From 1 (one) year to 3 (three) years and fined from 2,000,000 (two million) Riels to
6,000,000 (six million) Riels if this act is the threat of murder with the order of
fulfilling any condition.

Article 94
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 93 shall be fined from
1,000,000 (one million) Riels to 60,000,000 (sixty million) Riels as well as one or more
additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of Criminal
Code.

32 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 95
Any act of threatening to destroy, dilapidate or damage others’ property and if this threat
is committed again and again through telecommunication means with or without showing
identity shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) month to 6 (six) months and fined from
100,000 (one hundred thousand) to 1,000,000 (one million).
Any offenses as stated in Paragraph 1 shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) year to 2
(two) year and fined from 2,000,000 (two million) Riels to 4,000,000 (four million) Riels if this
threat is with the order to fulfill or not to fulfill any task.
Article 96
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 95 shall be fined from
1,000,000 (one million) Riels to 40,000,000 (forty million) Riels as well as one or more
additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of Criminal
Code.
Article 97
Secretly listen to or record the dialogue by using personal telecommunication system
which is not the dialogue partner shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) month to 1 (one) year
and fined from 100,000 (one hundred thousand) Riels to 2,000,000 (two million) Riels.
Regulation of the above Paragraph 1 shall not be implemented in case of listening or
recording that dialogue is made with approval from persons involved or with approval from
legitimate authority.
It shall have the same sentence for publicize the content of the dialogue without obtaining
legal rights from party of dialogue or legitimate authority or applicable legal regulations.
Article 98
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 97 shall be fined from
1,000,000 (one million) Riels to 20,000,000 (twenty million) Riels as well as one or more
additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of Criminal
Code.

33 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 99
Any act of producing, installing, or distributing software or hidden audio recorders or
record the dialogue by using telecommunication system shall be sentenced in prison from 6 (six)
months to 2 (two) years and fined from 1,000,000 (one million) Riels to 4,000,000 (four million)
Riels.
Article 100
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 99 shall be fined from
10,000,000 (ten million) Riels to 40,000,000 (forty million) Riels as well as one or more
additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of Criminal
Code.
Article 101
Taking the third party’s identity to use telecommunication system in the event that leads
to or may lead to accusation of felony to the third party shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one)
year to 3 (three) years and fined from 2,000,000 (two million) Riels to 6,000,000 (six million)
Riels.
Article 102
Shall be given a written warning with correctional conditions attached for set time by
TRC to telecommunication operators or persons involved with telecommunication sector which
competes illegally against Paragraph 1 of Article 58, Article 61 or Article 62 of this law.
In the event that they do not respect the above warning shall be sentenced in prison from
6 (six) months to 3 (three) years and fined from 50,000,000 (fifty million) Riels to 100,000,000
(one hundred million) Riels.
Article 103
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 102 shall be fined from
500,000,000 (five hundred million) Riels to 1,000,000,000 (one billion) Riels as well as one or
more additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of
Criminal Code.

34 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Article 104
Submission of false cost, financial report, or non-financial information of TRC, the
person shall be sentenced in prison from 1 (one) year to 3 (three) years and fined from
50,000,000 (fifty million) Riels to 100,000,000 (one hundred million) Riels.
Article 105
Any legal person who commits offenses as stated in Article 104 shall be fined from
500,000,000 (five hundred million) Riels to 1,000,000,000 (one billion) Riels as well as one or
more additional penalties as stated in Article 168 (additional penalties for legal person) of
Criminal Code.
Article 106
As for offense committed by individuals, one or more additional penalties as stated in the
following criminal codes shall be declared:
1- Partially forfeit the rights of citizen;
2- Prohibition for any practicing profession in which that offense is committed during
doing it;
3- Prohibition of residency;
4- Prohibition of a convicted alien from entering and remaining in the territory of the
Kingdom of Cambodia;
5- Confiscation of any instruments, materials or items which were used or intended to be
used to commit the offenses;
6- Confiscation of the objects or funds which is the subject of the offenses;
7- Confiscation of the income or property arising out of the offenses;
8- Confiscation of the utensils, materials and furnishing in the premises in which the
offense was committed;
9- Confiscation of vehicles belonging to the convicted person;
35 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

10- Prohibition of holding or taking with all kinds of weapons, explosive devices, and
ammunitions;
11- Disqualification from public procurement;
12- Closure of institution for preparing or committing offenses;
13- Prohibition of operating business in institution which is open in public or used by the
public;
14- Display sentencing decision;
15- Publication of sentencing decision in media;
16- Publication of sentencing decision by all means of audio-visual telecommunication.
Article 107
Any offense committed by legal person is the offense committed by an organization or its
representative for the sake of that legal person.
The organization or the representative of that legal person refers to an organization or
person who has the rights to decide in the name of legal person in line with statutes of that legal
person.
Criminal responsibilities of legal person do not cover responsibilities of that individual.
Article 108
Any officials of MPTC and TRC abuse their authority or use their power to prevent from
implementing this law shall receive administrative sanction according to applicable laws by not
covering other criminal offenses.
Article 109
The attempt to commit a misdemeanor covered under this Law shall be subject to the
same penalty as that applied to the above mentioned misdemeanor.

36 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Article 110
Within one year from the date of this Law entered into force, telecommunications
operators or persons involved with the telecommunications sector shall reapply for permit,
certificate or license at TRC in order to unify those documents in accordance with this Law and
other regulations.
Article 111
Telecommunication Regulator of Cambodia is the Telecommunication Regulator of
Cambodia after this Law entered into force. Telecommunications Regulation of Cambodia shall
continue to carry out its functions and duties until sub-decree on the organization and functioning
of Telecommunication Regulator of Cambodia came into force.
Article 112
The conditions covered under chapter 6 and 7 of this Law shall be applied within 1 (one)
year after this Law came into force.

37 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 113
All provisions contrary to this Law shall be abrogated.
Article 114
This law shall be urgently promulgated.
Royal Palace, 17 December 2015
PRL.1512.1149

Signature and Stamp
NORODOM SIHAMONI

Having seen His Majesty’s signature
Prime Minister
Signature
Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen
Having seen and submitted to
Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen
Minister of Post and Telecommunication
Signature
PRAK Sokhon

No.: 1154 S.N
This copy can be distributed
Phnom Penh, 21 December 2015
Secretary General of Royal Government
[Signed and stamped]

SOY Sokha
38 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Annex of Law on Telecommunications
Glossary for Using in This Law

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Universal Service Obligation refers to the obligation of telecommunication operators and
information and communication technology in providing basic telecommunication service
and value-added service to the citizens with suitable price and good service quality, and be
available everywhere throughout the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Universal Service Obligation Program refers to policy or strategic plan of the Royal
Government in administering, organizing and implementing the universal service
obligation.
Software Program refers to computer program which is designed in order to facilitate the
users to do something on or via desktops, laptops, smart phones, and all the electronic
devices which need program installation above.
Capacity Building and Research and Development refer to the mechanism of building,
training, and strengthening the professional capability, research, and development in
telecommunication sector and information and communication technology.
Infrastructure and Network Interconnection refers to the interconnection between
infrastructure and network of a telecommunication operator with infrastructure and
network of another, which allows the users or customers of different networks to be able to
connect communication or conversation with one another smoothly.
Telecommunication Numbering Book Publication refers to any publication activity of
books, texts or telecommunication numbering documents in form of paper or soft copy for
the purpose of doing the business or trading.
Basic Agreement refers to the legal documents or regulations which determined the
contents and conditions related to interconnection and possibility of using the infrastructure
and telecommunication network.
Interconnection Agreement refers to the agreement on interconnection of infrastructure
and network.
Telecommunication Code Number refers to number, code number, and special signs of
telecommunication which are distributed to the telecommunication operators for using in
providing telecommunication services in the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Digital Gap refers to the gap of receiving the service and using information and
communication technology in the cities, towns and countryside.
Telecommunication Equipment refers to equipment, devices, accessories or reserved
objects which are made and/or exported or imported for using in telecommunication system
and information and communication technology.
39 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

-

-

-

-

-

-

Telecommunication Service Cost Base refers to cost base of telecommunication services
which the telecommunication operator shall provide Telecommunication Regulatory of
Cambodia (TRC) in a certain time as basis in order to examine and monitor the legality and
loyalty of competition. The formula of cost base shall be determined by MPTC with the
request of TRC.
Telecommunication Service Price refers to any telecommunication service price which is
determined by the telecommunication operators to the users.
Telecommunication Service and Information Technology Data refers to the any data
related to telecommunication operation which is provided through direct network
connection or other appropriate technical ways with the operators or individuals related to
telecommunication sector.
Telecommunication Market refers to the place for trading the telecommunication sector.
All Forms refers to any form which is determined in the provision on competition.
Telecommunications refer to the science and technology in sending and receiving the
signals, data, sound, pictures or types of other information by using the energy in the form
of electro-magnetic, electricity, radio, light, or other forms.
Radio Frequency Spectrum refers to the spectrum of the whole electromagnetic which is
broadcasted and determined in frequency or radio wave.
Radio Frequency refers to oscillation rate of radio wave in determined duration.
Telecommunication Regulatory of Cambodia refers to the telecommunication regulatory
which is established by law.
Person refers to physical person or legal person.
Person concerning Telecommunication Sector refers to physical person or legal person
who is trading in telecommunication sector excluding the telecommunication operators.
Common Network refers to any network which is used by two or more telecommunication
operators.
Telecommunication Operator refers to the legal person who receives the
telecommunication operation license in the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Telecommunication Operation refers to any activity related to science and technology in
sending and receiving signals, data, sound, pictures, or other types of information by using
the energy in the form of electromagnetic, electricity, radio, light, or other forms.
National Telecommunication Numbering Plan refers to the plan which is designed in
order to administer and determine the number, code number, and special signs of
telecommunication in the Kingdom of Cambodia.
National Radio Frequency Spectrum Plan refers to the plan which identities, distributes,
and uses national radio spectrum effectively to comply with standard nationally and
internationally.

40 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Competent Arbitration refers to any reconciliation of conflict by using arbitration forum
in which the arbitrator receives the training in telecommunication sector and information
and communication technology and obtains the qualification from MPTC.
Universal Service Obligation Fund refers to any budget package which is used in order to
support and implement universal service obligation program.
Telecommunication Numbering refers to number, code number, and special signs of
telecommunication.
National Security and Defense Sector refer to telecommunication operation which is used
for National Security and Defense Sector in term of Article 3 of this law.
Emergency Service refers to the telecommunication service which is used in emergency
by the public and provided the national police entity, fire station, and ambulance service
entity.
Telecommunication Service refers to any activity which is provided for sending and
receiving the sound, data, signals, pictures, or other types of information through using the
energy in the form of electromagnetic, electricity, radio, light or other forms. In term of this
law, telecommunication service includes basic telecommunication service and value-add
telecommunication services.
Basic Telecommunication Service refers to any telecommunication service which allows
the users to communicate each other directly in certain time in accordance with
determination of World Trade Organization.
Value-add Telecommunication Service
refers to any service which the
telecommunication operator provides value add on basic telecommunication service by
improving form or content of information or provide for saving and downloading the
information.
Public Telecommunication Service refers to telecommunication service for serving the
public.
Telecommunication Infrastructure and Network refer to the assembling of
telecommunication equipment such as signals sending network telecommunication and
relevant telecommunication building.
Supported Telecommunication Infrastructure refers to any infrastructure which is used
for telecommunication infrastructure support and protection.
Physical Infrastructure refers to series of infrastructure which includes infrastructure for
serving the communication sector, energy, clean water, solid and liquid waste,
telecommunication sector, and other infrastructures.
Dependence refers to the situation of depending others.
Electronic Address refers to the numbers or electronic letters for determining address or
identification of information and communication technology network.
Annex of Budget refers to the budget which is organized in separate table from
the budget of ministries, institution of technical controls by respecting the pattern which is
41 /42

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

determined by Ministry of Economy and Finance and complying with the calendar of
annual budget preparation as stipulated in Law on Public Financial System. This budget is
accompanied with the budget of ministries, institution of technical controls and serves the
purpose of them.

42 /42

