Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


For federal institutions

Collecting personal information and consent



Report a concern

OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Consent

Guidelines for obtaining meaningful consent

Related infographic

May 2018

On this page
Overview
Seven guiding principles for meaningful consent
Determining the appropriate form of consent
Consent and children
What else should organizations know about consent?
Checklist

See an infographic of these tips
See all infographics

Related content
Frequently Asked Questions for Online
Consent

Overview

Interpretation Bulletin: Form of Consent
Ten Tips for a Better Online Privacy Policy
and Improved Privacy Practice Transparency
Discussion paper on potential enhancements
to consent under PIPEDA

Meaningful consent is an essential element of Canadian private sector privacy legislation. Under privacy
laws, organizations are generally required to obtain meaningful consent for the collection, use and
disclosure of personal information. However, advances in technology and the use of lengthy, legalistic
privacy policies have too often served to make the control – and personal autonomy – that should be
enabled by consent nothing more than illusory. Consent should remain central, but it is necessary to
breathe life into the ways in which it is obtained.
Building on previous publications examining the current state of consent, including challenges and
potential solutions 1 , this document sets out practical and actionable guidance regarding what
organizations should do to ensure that they obtain meaningful consent.

Report on Consent
Meaningful consent video

This document is being jointly issued by the OSce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada (“OPC”) and
the OSces of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Alberta (“OIPC-AB”) and British Columbia
(“OIPC-BC”). It re[ects the principles underlying the federal Personal Information Protection and Electronic
Documents Act (PIPEDA) and its substantially similar provincial counterparts: the Alberta Personal
Information Protection Act; the British Columbia Personal Information Protection Act; and, the Quebec Act
Respecting the Protection of Personal Information in the Private Sector 2 . While all of these Acts are
based on the same underlying principles, some differences exist. Organizations are responsible for
understanding their speci*c obligations under the legislation to which they are subject. 3

Seven guiding principles for meaningful consent
During the OPC’s 2016 Consent Consultations, some suggested that regulators develop templates for
privacy policies; we do not believe that should be our role. Rather, our view is that organizations are best
placed to *nd innovative and creative solutions for developing a consent process that respects their
speci*c regulatory obligations as well as the nature of their relationship with their customers. However, in
designing such a process, we expect organizations to be guided 4 by the following principles:

1. Emphasize key elements
Information provided about the collection, use and disclosure of individuals’ personal information must be
readily available in complete form – but to avoid information overload and facilitate understanding by
individuals, certain elements warrant greater emphasis or attention in order to obtain meaningful consent.
PIPEDA requires individuals to understand the nature, purpose and consequences of what they are
consenting to 5 . In order for consent to be considered valid, or meaningful, organizations must inform
individuals of their privacy practices in a comprehensive and understandable manner 6 . This means
that organizations must provide information about their privacy management practices in a form that is
readily accessible to those interested individuals who wish to read it in full.
However, the reality is that information buried in a privacy policy or terms of use serves no practical
purpose to individuals with limited time and energy to devote to reviewing privacy information. To receive
meaningful consent, organizations must allow individuals to quickly review key elements impacting their
privacy decisions right up front as they are considering using the service or product on offer, making the
purchase, or downloading the app, etc. For this purpose, organizations must generally put additional
emphasis on the following key elements:
What personal information is being collected
Organizations must identify for individuals what personal information is being, or may be, collected
about them. This must be done with suScient precision for individuals to meaningfully understand
what they are consenting to. 7
With which parties personal information is being shared
Individuals expect that the personal information they provide to one organization will not be shared
with another without their knowledge and consent. As such, disclosures to third parties must be
clearly explained, including the types of information being shared. Organizations should be as
speci*c as possible in enumerating these third parties. In the case where third parties may change
periodically or are too numerous to specify, organizations should at the very least specify the types
of third parties information is shared with and then use other means (such as layering) to be more
speci*c. Particular attention should be paid to any disclosures to third parties that may use the
information for their own purposes, as opposed to simply providing services for the *rst-party.
For what purposes personal information is collected, used or disclosed
Individuals should be made aware of all purposes for which information is collected, used or
disclosed. At a minimum, they must be informed of purposes in suScient detail such as to ensure
they meaningfully understand what they are invited to consent to. These purposes must be described
in meaningful language, avoiding vagueness like ‘service improvement’. Purposes that are integral to
the provision of the service should be distinguished from those that are not, and any available
options explained. Organizations should in particular highlight any purposes that would not be
obvious to the individual and/or reasonably expected based on the context.
Risk of harm and other consequences
Under PIPEDA 8 , for consent to be valid, it must be reasonable to expect that individuals
understand the consequences of the collection, use or disclosure to which they are consenting 9 .
One such consequence, about which individuals should be made clearly aware, is risk of harm – and,
in particular, those residual risks which remain after an organization has applied any mitigation
measures designed to minimize the risk and impact of potential harms. If there is a meaningful risk
that such residual risk will materialize and will be signi*cant, the OPC is of the view that it is a
potential consequence about which individuals must be noti*ed.
The OPC’s premise is that if an organization identi*es potential harms that may arise from the
collection, use or disclosure of personal information, PIPEDA’s accountability principle will require
that the organization will seek to minimize this risk. In some cases, mitigation efforts will reduce the
risk signi*cantly. In other cases the risk will remain meaningful. Only meaningful residual risks of
signi*cant harm must be noti*ed to individuals.
By meaningful risk, we mean a risk that falls below the balance of probabilities but is more than a
minimal or mere possibility. Signi*cant harm includes bodily harm, humiliation, damage to reputation
or relationships, loss of employment, business or professional opportunities, *nancial loss, identity
theft, negative effects on the credit record and damage to or loss of property. 10
Note that where there is a likely (probable) risk of signi*cant harm, the intended collection, use or
disclosure would generally be considered inappropriate under subsection 5(3) of PIPEDA and
therefore should not be the subject of consent.
Risk of harm should be considered broadly, and in addition to harms which arise directly from the
activity, can include reasonably foreseeable harms caused by bad actors or others 11 (e.g.
unauthorized re-use of social media information intended for a limited audience).
At this time, there is no prescribed form in which the above elements should be highlighted so as to give
them prominence. We encourage organizations to consider adopting standardized mechanisms, to the
extent that best practices emerge in the future in different sectors. Organizations should also consider the
principles which follow in this document in determining the most appropriate means of communicating
these key elements, while keeping in mind the requirement for additional emphasis on this information.

2. Allow individuals to control the level of detail they get and when
Information must be provided to individuals in manageable and easily-accessible ways (potentially
including layers) and individuals should be able to control how much more detail they wish to obtain, and
when.
Beyond the four elements above, the level of detail required to make a consent decision will vary by
individual, and by situation. One person may be comfortable with a quick review of summary information;
another may want to do a deeper dive. One person may want to do a more in-depth review of an
organization’s privacy practices up-front; another may look at information piece-meal, returning to it later
when they have more time or depending on what services they are using and when. Individuals may also
want the opportunity to review in detail the information that they ‘clicked-through’ when they signed up for
the service originally. All approaches to seeking privacy information should be respected and supported by
organizations.
Presenting information in a layered-format 12 , or by another means that supports user-control over the
level of detail provided to them, helps make better sense of lengthy, complex information by offering a
summary of the key highlights up front. Moreover, this information should remain available to individuals
as they engage with the organization. Consent choices are not made just once; at any time, individuals
should be able to re-consider whether they wish to maintain or withdraw their consent, and full information
should be available to them as they make those decisions.

3. Provide individuals with clear options to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’
Individuals cannot be required to consent to the collection, use or disclosure of personal information
beyond what is necessary to provide the product or service – they must be given a choice. These choices
must be explained clearly and made easily accessible. Whether each choice is most appropriately ‘opt-in’
or ‘opt-out’ will depend on factors discussed in the “Form of Consent” section of this document.
Collections, uses or disclosures of personal information over which the individual cannot assert any
control (other than to not use a product or service) are called conditions of service. For a collection, use, or
disclosure to be a valid condition of service, it must be integral to the provision of that product or service
such that it is required to ful*ll its explicitly speci*ed and legitimate purpose. Organizations should be
transparent and prepared to explain why any given collection, use or disclosure is a condition of service,
particularly if it is not obvious.
Otherwise, for all other collections, uses and disclosures, individuals must be given a choice (unless an
exception to the general consent requirement applies).

4. Be innovative and creative
Organizations should design and/or adopt innovative consent processes that can be implemented just-intime, are speci*c to the context, and are appropriate to the type of interface used.
When seeking consent online, organizations should do more than simply transpose in digital form, their
paper-based policies from the ogine environment. The digital environment is dynamic in nature, and its
capabilities should be considered and taken advantage of. Organizations are encouraged to use a variety
of communications strategies – including “just-in-time” notices, interactive tools and customized mobile
interfaces – to explain their privacy practices, including the following:

“Just-in-time” notices
An important consideration in obtaining meaningful consent in the online environment is the speed with
which transactions take place. In wanting to quickly access information and services, users often feel a
sense of urgency in making decisions about sharing their information. It is therefore important for
organizations to bring relevant privacy information to the forefront where it is conspicuous, quick to
access, and intuitive. For example, if a user’s age is being requested to register for an online service, a justin-time notice explaining why this information is needed should appear near the space where the user
would input the information. As another example, if a user’s location is required to enable a certain feature
of a service, a just-in-time notice explaining this and requesting access can be made when that user *rst
accesses the feature, rather than only when signing up for the service originally.

Interactive tools
Organizations have also been using the interactive properties of the Internet to aid in the presentation of
privacy information. We have seen examples in which organizations create interactive walkthroughs of
their privacy settings (presenting them to users at initial sign-up, and then again periodically as
‘refreshers’), videos explaining key concepts, and/or infographics and similar visual tools.

Customized mobile interfaces
Mobile devices present an ampli*ed communication challenge. Individuals’ time and attention are at a
premium, and the medium does not lend itself to lengthy explanations. As such, organizations need to
highlight privacy issues at particular decision points in the user experience where people are likely to pay
attention and need guidance the most. In that context, privacy information needs to be optimized to be
effective in spite of the physical limitations of screen size. Our mobile apps guidance is a good resource
when designing the mobile consent experience.

5. Consider the consumer’s perspective
Consent processes must take into account the consumer’s perspective to ensure that they are userfriendly and that the information provided is generally understandable from the point of view of the
organization’s target audience(s).
Consent is only valid where the individual can understand that to which they are consenting. 13
Organizations put signi*cant resources into the design of user experiences and interactions; surely, they
can put similar efforts toward ensuring that their consent process is understandable, user-friendly and
customized to the nature of the product or service they are offering as well as their target audiences.
Organizations should consider both the content of privacy communications and their accessibility from
the perspective of their users. This includes using clear explanations, a level of language suitable to a
diverse audience, and a comprehensible means of displaying and/or communicating information.
Organizations should also ensure that privacy policies and notices are easily accessible from all devices
members of their target audience(s)may be using, including digital health technologies, smart phones,
tablets, gaming devices, as well as more traditional PCs or laptops. If the practices being described are
complex and involve multiple parties, the organization should make a concerted effort to ensure that users
can easily access and understand all of the key elements.
In order to do all of this effectively, organizations may consider:
Consulting with users and seeking their input when designing a consent process;
Pilot testing or using focus groups to ensure individuals understand what they are consenting to;
Involving user interaction/user experience (UI/UX) designers in the development of the consent
process;
Consulting with privacy experts and/or regulators when designing a consent process; and/or,
Following an established ‘best practice,’ standard or other guideline in developing a consent process.
The suggestions above are non-exhaustive, and are intended to be scalable depending on the size of
organizations and the amount and type of personal information they collect, use or disclose.

6. Make consent a dynamic and ongoing process
Informed consent is an ongoing process that changes as circumstances change; organizations should not
rely on a static moment in time but rather treat consent as a dynamic and interactive process.
Ensuring the effectiveness of individual consent is a dynamic process that does not end with the posting
of a privacy policy or notice, but rather, continues as organizations innovate, grow and evolve. When
information [ows are complex, as they often are, organizations should provide some interactive and
dynamic way to anticipate and answer users’ questions if the information provided is not clear or gives rise
to follow-up questions. While providing 1-800 numbers may not be feasible or practical in a fast-paced
online environment, there are myriad other ways organizations can do this, such as, developing and
regularly updating FAQs, using new smart technologies, chatbots, etc.
When an organization plans to introduce signi*cant changes to its privacy practices, it must notify users
and obtain consent prior to the changes coming into effect. Signi*cant changes include using personal
information for a new purpose not anticipated originally or a new disclosure of personal information to a
third party for a purpose other than processing that is integral to the delivery of a service.
Organizations should also consider periodically reminding individuals about their privacy options and
inviting them to review these.
Lastly, as a best practice, organizations should periodically audit their information management practices
to ensure that personal information continues to be handled in the way described to individuals.

7. Be accountable: Stand ready to demonstrate compliance
Organizations, when asked, should be in a position to demonstrate compliance, and in particular that the
consent process they have implemented is suSciently understandable from the general perspective of
their target audience(s) as to allow for valid and meaningful consent.
In order for an organization to demonstrate that it has obtained valid consent, pointing to a line buried in a
privacy policy will not suSce. Instead, organizations should be able to demonstrate – either in the case of
a complaint from an individual or a proactive query from a privacy regulator – that they have a process in
place to obtain consent from individuals, and that such process is compliant with the consent obligations
set out in legislation. This is an integral part of not only the consent process, but of an effective
accountability regime.
Such demonstrations may include – but are not limited to – showing, when called upon, that the
organization has considered and implemented the principles in this document. Again, regulators’
expectations around the steps an organization has taken to demonstrate compliance and accountability
will depend on the size of organizations and the amount and type of personal information they collect, use
or disclose.
For general information on privacy management practices, please refer to our guidance document,
“Getting Accountability Right with a Privacy Management Program.”

Determining the appropriate form of consent
Beyond the above principles, it is important for organizations to consider the appropriate form of consent
to use (express or implied) for any collection, use or disclosure of personal information for which consent
is required. While consent should generally be express, it can be implied in strictly de*ned circumstances.
14 The Supreme Court of Canada has recently con*rmed that in making this determination,
organizations need to take into account the sensitivity of the information and the reasonable expectations
of the individual, both of which will depend on context. 15
Organizations must generally obtain express consent when:
The information being collected, used or disclosed is sensitive;
The collection, use or disclosure is outside of the reasonable expectations of the individual;
and/or,
The collection, use or disclosure creates a meaningful residual risk of signiDcant harm. 16

Sensitivity
There is no “bright line” separation of what is, and is not, sensitive information. Certain categories of
information (such as health or *nancial) will generally be considered sensitive, but even non-sensitive
information can become sensitive depending on the circumstances. For example, an individual piece of
information considered non-sensitive on its own, could become sensitive depending on what it is capable
of revealing when combined with other personal information about the individual. 17 Conversely, in
certain circumstances, personal information generally considered sensitive may become less so where
other related information is already in the public domain, depending on the purpose for which such
information is being made public and the nature of the relationship between the parties involved. 18

Reasonable expectations
In determining the appropriate form of consent, organizations should also consider the reasonable
expectations of the individual in the circumstances. For example, if there is a use or disclosure a user
would not reasonably expect to be occurring, such as certain sharing of information with a third party, the
downloading of photos or contact lists, or the tracking of location, express consent would likely be
required.
In some cases, other contextual factors may come into play. For example, where an organization considers
disclosure to a third party, the identity of the third party and their purpose in seeking access to the
information may be relevant. Depending on the circumstances, an individual might reasonably expect that
information could be disclosed to a third party with a legal entitlement to it; however, an individual would
not reasonably expect disclosure to individuals who are merely curious or seek the information for
nefarious purposes. 19

Risk of harm
Underlying the contextual analysis of both sensitivity and reasonable expectations is risk of harm to the
individual. Harm should be understood broadly, including material and reputational impacts, restrictions on
autonomy, and other factors. Guiding Principle 1, above, states that individuals must be noti*ed where
there is a meaningful risk that a residual risk of harm will materialize and will be signi*cant. The OPC is of
the view that in such a situation, an individual would reasonably expect that consent for such a collection,
use or disclosure would be express, not implied. Again, this assumes that the risk of harm does not meet a
threshold which would contravene the “appropriate purpose” requirement described below (e.g. where
there is a likely or probable risk of signi*cant harm), in which case the purpose would be considered
offside subsection 5(3) of PIPEDA.

Consent and children
The ability of children and youth to provide meaningful consent for the sharing of their personal
information depends greatly on their cognitive and emotional development. Given the diSculties that
adults have in understanding what is happening with their personal information in a complex environment,
it would be unrealistic to expect children to fully appreciate the complexities and potential risks of sharing
their personal information. In recognition of this, private sector privacy legislation allows for consent
through an authorized person, such as a parent or legal guardian.
We recognize that the maturation process is an evolving one, as youth are introduced to– and thus begin
to develop an understanding of - information-based services at increasingly early ages. The OPC is of the
view that while a child’s capacity to consent can vary from individual to individual, there is nonetheless a
threshold age below which young children are not likely to fully understand the consequences of their
privacy choices, particularly in this age of complex data-[ows. On the other hand, the OIPC-AB, OIPC-BC
and Quebec CAI do not set a speci*c age threshold, but rather consider whether the individual
understands the nature and consequences of the exercise of the right or power in question. 20 As such,
where a child is unable to meaningfully consent to the collection, use and disclosure of personal
information (the OPC takes the position that, in all but exceptional circumstances, this means anyone
under the age of 13), consent must instead be obtained from their parents or guardians. For minors able to
provide meaningful consent, consent can only be considered meaningful if organizations have reasonably
taken into account their level of maturity in developing their consent processes and adapted them
accordingly. Organizations undertaking such collections, uses or disclosures should pay special mind to
Guiding Principle 7, and stand ready to demonstrate on demand that their chosen process leads to
meaningful and valid consent.

What else should organizations know about consent?
Lastly, there are some *nal considerations which need to be kept in mind by organizations designing their
consent processes.

Appropriate purpose
It is important to remember that the purposes for which an organization collects and uses personal
information must be appropriate and de*ned. Even with consent, privacy laws require organizations to
limit collection, use and disclosure of personal information to purposes that a reasonable person would
consider appropriate under the circumstances 21 . In other words, an individual’s consent is not a free
pass for organizations to engage in collecting and using personal information indiscriminately for
whatever purpose they choose.

Withdrawing consent
Under private sector privacy laws, individuals have the right to withdraw consent, subject to legal or
contractual restrictions. Withdrawal of consent should be respected and put a stop to any further
collection and use of the individual’s personal information. It may also mean that data held by an
organization about an individual should be deleted depending on the circumstances. For example, if a user
deletes his account on a social networking site, the organization should delete his personal information on
the site. There may be limited circumstances where an organization may need to retain some information
about an individual who has withdrawn consent. For example, a “do not contact” list of email addresses
could be retained for individuals who have requested no further communication from an online service.
Moreover, other laws may require that information be retained. For example, *nancial sector legislation
and regulations require organizations to retain information such as client credit *les and credit card
applications for *ve years from the day of closing of the account to which they relate. 22

Consent is not a silver bullet
Finally, it is important to note that consent does not waive an organization’s other obligations under
privacy laws, such as overall accountability, collection limitation, and safeguards. In other words, if an
individual consented to have their personal information handled contrary to legal requirements, the
organization would still be considered in contravention of those requirements.

Checklist
The measures set out in this document can be separated into obligations arising from legal requirements
(those things an organization must do to obtain meaningful consent) and best practices (those things an
organization should consider in order to improve their consent process). We recommend reading the entire
document in order to understand context and nuance and reading your jurisdiction’s legislation for your
speci*c legal obligations, but we provide the following checklist as a quick reference.

Must do
To obtain meaningful consent and meet their related obligations under Canadian privacy law,
organizations must:
Make privacy information readily available in complete form, while giving emphasis or bringing
attention to four key elements:
What personal information is being collected, with suScient precision for individuals to
meaningfully understand what they are consenting to.
With which parties personal information is being shared
For what purposes personal information is being collected, used or disclosed, in suScient
detail for individuals to meaningfully understand what they are consenting to.
Risks of harm and other consequences
Provide information in manageable and easily-accessible ways.
Make available to individuals a clear and easily accessible choice for any collection, use or
disclosure that is not necessary to provide the product or service.
Consider the perspective of your consumers, to ensure consent processes are user-friendly and
generally understandable.
Obtain consent when making signi*cant changes to privacy practices, including use of data for new
purposes or disclosures to new third parties.
Only collect, use or disclose personal information for purposes that a reasonable person would
consider appropriate, under the circumstances.
Allow individuals to withdraw consent (subject to legal or contractual restrictions).

Form of consent
Obtain explicit consent for collections, uses or disclosures which generally: (i) involves sensitive
information; (ii) are outside the reasonable expectations of the individual; and/or (iii) create a
meaningful residual risk of signiDcant harm.

Consent and children
Obtain consent from a parent or guardian for any individual unable to provide meaningful consent
themselves (the OPC takes the position that, in all but exceptional circumstances, this means anyone
under the age of 13), and ensure that the consent process for youth able to provide consent
themselves reasonably considers their level of maturity.

Should do
Allow individuals to control the amount of detail they wish to receive, and when.
Design or adopt innovative and creative ways of obtaining consent, which are just-in-time, speci*c to
the context, and suitable to the type of interface.
Periodically remind individuals about the consent choices they have made, and those available to
them.
Periodically audit privacy communications to ensure they accurately re[ect current personal
information management practices.
Stand ready to demonstrate compliance – in particular, that the consent process is understandable
from the perspective of the user.
In designing consent processes, consider:
Consulting with users and seeking their input;
Pilot testing or using focus groups to evaluate the understandability of documents;
Involving user interaction / user experience (UI/UX) designers;
Consulting with privacy experts and/or regulators; and/or,
Following established best practices or standards.

Footnotes
1

For instance, the OPC’s “A discussion paper exploring potential enhancements to consent under
the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act” and the outcome of that
discussion, the “Report on Consent”.

2

Note that the Quebec Commission d'accès à l'information (“Québec CAI”) is not a signatory to
this document.

3

For speci*c questions about how these guidelines apply to your organization, please contact
the Commissioner’s oSce in your jurisdiction.

4

In this document, the use of the word “must” indicates an obligation, whereas the use of the
word “should” indicates a recommended best practice.

5

Please consult relevant legislation in Alberta, British Columbia and Quebec for speci*c
language on valid consent in those provinces.

6

For further practical advice for BC organizations, please refer to BC’s guidance document
entitled Practical Suggestions for your Organization’s Website’s Privacy Policy.

7

Organizations may also wish to indicate that additional information may be collected over the
course of the business relationship, and that consent will be sought prior to such collections.
See Principle 6 – Make consent an ongoing and dynamic process.

8

This language is not currently in the Personal Information Protection Acts of Alberta or British
Columbia.

9

PIPEDA subsection 6.1: “For the purposes of clause 4.3 [Consent] of Schedule 1, the consent of
an individual is only valid if it is reasonable to expect that an individual to whom the
organization’s activities are directed would understand the nature, purpose and consequences
of the collection, use or disclosure of the personal information to which they are consenting.”

10

Section 10.1(7) of PIPEDA; coming into force November 1, 2018.

11

The potential risk of data breach – and the security safeguards put in place to mitigate this risk
– do not need to be given additional emphasis, but should be discussed within the
organization’s full privacy disclosure.

12

The Center for Information Policy Leadership, Hunton & Williams LLP. Ten steps to develop a
multilayered privacy notice.

13

For instance, see footnote 9, which sets out Section 6.1 of PIPEDA.

14

Royal Bank of Canada v. Trang, 2016 SCC 50 § 23. See also Alberta PIPA, sections 8(2) – 8(2.2),
8(4).

15

Ibid.

16

See the discussion of meaningful residual risk of signi*cant harm earlier in this document
(Guiding Principle for Online Consent 1: Emphasize Key Elements).

17

R. v. Spencer, 2014 SCC 43; See also OPC Report of Findings #2015-001

18

Royal Bank of Canada v. Trang, 2016 SCC 50 § 36.

19

Ibid, §§ 45-46.

20

However, in Quebec youth under 14 cannot give consent for medical care, nor are they able to
request access to personal information of a medical or social nature.

21

Inappropriate data practices – interpretation and application of subsection 5(3)

22

Guideline 6G: Record Keeping Requirements for Financial Entities, Financial Transactions and
Reports Analysis Centre of Canada, June 2017.

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2018-05-24

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports
Publications
Working at the OPC

Speeches

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the OSce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

