Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


For federal institutions

Report a concern

OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Surveillance

Recording of Customer Telephone Calls

Related content
PIPEDA fair information principles

Revised: March 2018

PIPEDA in brief
PIPEDA compliance help

Organizations record customer telephone calls for a variety of reasons, such as ensuring quality of
customer service, dispute resolution or training/development of staff.

Identi*cation and authentication

These recordings involve the collection of personal information and therefore must be handled
appropriately—from collection through to disposal.

Accessing your information
Responding to access to information
requests under PIPEDA

Canada’s federal private sector privacy law, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents
Act (PIPEDA), sets the ground rules for how businesses handle personal information in the course of
commercial activities.
Businesses subject to PIPEDA must comply with the Act when recording calls—whether the customer or
the organization initiates the call. Businesses contracting out call centre, telemarketing and similar
services must ensure that these third parties also follow the rules.
When it comes to recording customer telephone calls, this page outlines what individuals can expect and
how businesses subject to PIPEDA can comply. For those not subject to PIPEDA, the guidelines below are
best practices.

Customer calls and personal information
Businesses generally record calls with the intention of capturing the content of their conversations with
customers. However, these recordings can also collect personal information beyond the intended purpose
of a call. For example, a recording can capture:
voice characteristics, such as tone, and
incidental personal information offered by the caller not relevant to the call.
Some businesses use recordings of customers’ voices as a means of verifying their identity during future
calls. For more information about the privacy considerations of using a biometric such as voice for
authentication purposes, please refer to our Guidelines for Identi*cation and Authentication and Data at
Your Fingertips: Biometrics and the Challenges to Privacy.

How to record a customer call while respecting privacy law
The following guidelines provide customers and organizations with more detailed information about their
rights and obligations under PIPEDA when recording customer telephone calls:
The organization can only record a call for purposes that a reasonable person would consider
appropriate under the circumstances.
The organization must inform the customer that they are recording a call, clearly state the purpose of
the recording and ask for their consent. It is important to get the customer’s consent in several ways
to ensure that their consent is meaningful. For example:
verbally;
by the customer pressing a number on the keypad (in the case of automated messages); and
with clear messages on monthly statements. (For example: If you have any questions about
your bill please call 1-800-XXX-XXXX. Please note your call will be recorded for XX purposes.).
If the customer proceeds with the call knowing that the conversation is being recorded and why, their
consent is implied.
If the caller objects to the recording, they can ask that the company not record the call or use an
alternative approach such as:
visiting a retail outlet;
writing a letter; or
completing the transaction online.
In very limited circumstances, consent is not required under PIPEDA when recording customer calls,
for example:
calls made to collect a debt;
calls made to investigate a potential fraud; or
calls where the customer’s knowledge that the call is being recorded could hamper the
organization’s ability to obtain accurate information.

Customers have a right to request access to the recording at a later date. The length of time an
organization keeps the recording will vary.
An organization may only use the information collected for the purposes speci*ed.
An organization should not state that it is recording the conversation for quality assurance purposes
if the recording will be used for other purposes, such as marketing or pro*ling.

Organizations must also ensure they comply with all of their PIPEDA obligations when recording customer
calls, including having appropriate safeguards and limiting retention of recordings. For further information
on PIPEDA requirements, please refer to our Privacy Guide for Businesses.
If a customer has concerns about privacy practices with respect to recording customer calls, they should
bring it to the attention of the business. We have Tips for Raising Your Privacy Concern with a Business
that may help.
If a customer is not satis*ed with the response to their privacy concerns, they may be able to *le a formal
privacy complaint with our O^ce.

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2018-03-06

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports

Speeches

Publications
Working at the OPC

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the O^ce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

