Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


For federal institutions

Business privacy



Safeguards and breaches

Report a concern


Privacy breaches



OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Respond to a privacy breach at your business

Preventing and responding to a privacy breach

Related content
What you need to know about mandatory
reporting of breaches of security safeguards

September 2018

Report a privacy breach at your business

The information below provides businesses with some best practices for preventing a privacy breach and
what do if a breach happens.

Understand the threats you’re facing
1. Know what personal information you have, where it is, and what you are doing with it. Data
inventories and process maps will help ensure you know exactly what personal information you need
to protect, as well as when and where you need to protect it. When and where do you collect personal
information? Where does that information go? Who can access it, and what do they do with it? You
must understand your data before you can protect it!
2. Know your vulnerabilities. Conduct risk and vulnerability assessments and/or penetration tests
within your organization to ensure that threats to privacy are identi*ed. Don’t just focus on technical
vulnerabilities, though. Are third parties collecting personal information on your behalf without
appropriate safeguards? Do you use paper-based application forms, which are transferred to a
central location (the loss of which means you’ll have no way of knowing who the affected individuals
are, let alone how to notify them)? When you upgrade your systems, do the old systems and
databases remain active, unwatched and unpatched? The OPC has seen each of these scenarios
lead to a breach. Identify your organizations’ weak points before a breach identi*es them for you!
3. Know your industry. Be aware of breaches in your industry. Attackers will often re-use the same
attacks against multiple organizations. Pay attention to alerts and other information from your
industry association, or whatever your source of industry news – don’t be the next vulnerable target!

Think beyond the hacker
4. Encrypt laptops, USB keys and other portable media. Organizations often focus on privacy breaches
caused by hackers, but this ignores some key threats. Perhaps the most common type of
preventable breach seen by the OPC occurs due to loss or theft of unencrypted laptops, USB keys,
and other portable media. In many of these incidents, the use of su[ciently strong encryption could
have turned a headline-grabbing privacy breach into a minor issue!
5. Limit the personal information you collect, as well as what you retain. You should know not only why
you are collecting each piece of personal information, but why you are keeping it. Where possible,
don’t collect personal information. For example, in most identity authentication cases it is enough to
view, but not record, an individual’s identi*cation. Also, if personal information is only collected for
limited purposes, securely dispose of it after they have been ful*lled. Always keep in mind: you can’t
lose what you don’t have!
6. Don’t neglect personal information’s end-of-life. It is important that you protect personal information
throughout its lifecycle – including the often overlooked end-of-life. Clearly de*ne your policies and
procedures about the secure destruction of personal information, and make sure they are followed.
The OPC has seen breaches caused by documents left behind in a move or thrown in the garbage, as
well as by information not being properly erased from discarded or recycled electronics. Like an
action movie hero, personal information tends to survive and reappear when its destruction isn’t seen
through to the end!
7. Train your employees. Policies can only be effective when those responsible for implementing and
abiding by them are aware of what they contain, why they exist, and the consequences of neglecting
their responsibilities. You should have in place ongoing privacy and security training and awareness
programs that go far beyond ‘box-ticking’ exercises. Employees who fully understand their roles and
responsibilities in protecting personal information can be one of an organization’s best lines of
defense against privacy breaches!
8. Limit, and monitor, access to personal information. Employees’ access to personal information
should be limited to what they need to know, particularly when this information is sensitive. This can
help ensure they don’t become the cause of a breach, either accidentally or intentionally. Similarly,
monitored access logs can help you identify unusual behaviours, and potentially prevent an incident
either before it occurs or in the early stage. Don’t burden your employees with more information than
they need to do their jobs!

But don’t forget about hackers, either
9. Maintain up-to-date software and safeguards. This is Security 101: if you don’t protect yourself
against known vulnerabilities, you greatly increase the likelihood of a breach. Establish systematic,
documented processes to ensure security-related patches are applied in a timely manner, and that
software that is no longer in use is removed from your system. As well, ensure that the virus and
malware de*nitions associated with your anti-virus and anti-malware software are current by
allowing them to perform regular updates. Operate at the speed of your attackers!
10. Implement and monitor, intrusion prevention and detection systems. An organization’s *rst goal is
to prevent intrusions, and you should have systems in place to do so. However, the reality is that even
with the best protections in place, your system may get breached. Measures such as intrusion
detection systems, *rewalls and audit logs can help you to identify and respond to privacy breaches
before they escalate – assuming you’re paying attention to them. Ensure that safeguards used to
monitor network or system activities and mitigate threats have been properly implemented and are
proactively monitored. Don’t rely only on the guards you’ve posted at your gate; know what’s
happening inside your walls!

Breach containment and preliminary assessment
11. You should take immediate common sense steps to limit the breach.
Immediately contain the breach (e.g., stop the unauthorized practice, recover the records, shut
down the system that was breached, revoke or change computer access codes or correct
weaknesses in physical or electronic security).
Designate an appropriate individual to lead the initial investigation. This individual should have
appropriate scope within the organization to conduct the initial investigation and make initial
recommendations. If necessary, a more detailed investigation may subsequently be required.
Determine the need to assemble a team which could include representatives from appropriate
parts of the business.
Determine who needs to be made aware of the incident internally, and potentially externally, at
this preliminary stage. Escalate internally as appropriate, including informing the person within
your organization responsible for privacy compliance.
Do not compromise the ability to investigate the breach. Be careful not to destroy evidence that
may be valuable in determining the cause or allow you to take appropriate corrective action.
12. Prevention of future breaches: Once the immediate steps are taken to mitigate the risks associated
with the breach, organizations need to take the time to investigate the cause of the breach and
consider whether to develop a prevention plan. The level of effort should refect the signi*cance of
the breach and whether it was a systemic breach or an isolated instance. This plan may include the
following:
i. a security audit of both physical and technical security;
ii. a review of policies and procedures and any changes to refect the lessons learned from the
investigation and regularly after that (e.g., security policies, record retention and collection
policies, etc.); and
iii. a review of employee training practices; and iv) a review of service delivery partners (e.g.,
dealers, retailers, etc.).

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2018-09-17

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports
Publications
Working at the OPC

Speeches

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the O[ce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

