DATA PROTECTION ACT – THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
LAW 133/V/2001 OF 22 JANUARY
This law establishes the general legal framework on the protection of individuals with
regard to the processing of personal data.
CHAPTER I
General provisions
Article 1
Object
The present law establishes the general legal framework on the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data.
Article 2
(Scope)
1. The present Act/Law shall apply to the processing of personal data wholly or
partly by automated means as well as to the processing of personal data other
than by automated means contained in manual files or part of manual files.
2. The present Act/Law shall apply to the processing of personal data carried out:
a) in the context of the activities of an establishment of the controller situated
within the national territory;
b) outside the national territory in places where the Cape Verdean law applies
by virtues of international public law;
c) by a controller who is not established on the national territory, who for
purposes of processing personal data makes use of automated or other types
of equipment situated on the national territory except such equipment is used
only for purposes of transit.
3. The present Act/Law shall apply to video surveillance and other forms of
capture, processing and dissemination of sound and images permitting persons
to be identified provided the processing controller is domiciled or based on the
national territory or makes use of a computer or data communication network
access provider established on the national territory.
4. In circumstances referred to subsection c) of number 2, the controller must
designate by means of notification to the Comissão Nacional de Protecção de
Dados (National Commission of Data Protection in English), henceforth referred
to as CNPD (in Portuguese; NCDP in English), a representative established in
Cape Verde to replace him in all his rights and obligations without prejudice to
his own liability/responsibility.
5. The preceding number shall apply where the controller is covered by the status
of extraterritoriality, immunity or any other status which precludes criminal
proceedings.
6. This Act/Law shall to the processing of personal data regarding public safety,
national defence and State security without prejudice to special rules in

instruments of international law to which Cape Verde is bound and specific laws
pertinent to the respective sectors.
Article 3
(Exception to the scope)
The present Act/Law shall not apply to the processing of personal data carried out
by individuals in the course of purely personal or household activities.
Article 4
(General principles)
The processing of personal data shall be carried out transparently and in strict
respect for privacy and for other fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the
citizen.
Article 5
(Definitions)
For the purpose of this Act/Law:
a) “Personal data”: shall mean any information of any type/nature and irrespective
of the medium involved, including sound and image relating to an identified or
identifiable person, “data subject”;
b) “Processing of personal data” or “ Processing” shall mean any operation or a set
of operations which is performed upon personal data, whether wholly or partly,
with or without automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation,
storage, adaptation, or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by
transmission, dissemination, or otherwise making available, alignment, or
combination, as well as blocking, erasure or destruction;
c) “Personal data filing system” or “Filing system” shall mean any structured set of
personal data which are accessible according to determined criteria, whether
centralised, decentralised or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis;
d) “Controller” shall mean the person or group, public authority, the service or any
other entity/body that alone or jointly with others determine(s) the purposes or
the means for the processing of personal data;
e) “Processor” shall mean a person or group, a public authority, agency or any
other entity/body that processes personal data on behalf of the controller;
f) “Third party” shall mean a person or group, a public authority, agency or any
other entity/body other than the data subject, the controller, the processor and
the persons who under the direct authority of the controller or the processor, are
authorised to process the data;
g) “Recipient” shall mean a person or group, a public authority, agency or any
other entity/body to whom personal data are disclosed, whether a third party or
not; however, authorities which may receive data in the framework of the law
shall not be regarded as recipients;

h) “The data subject’s consent” shall mean any freely given specific and informed
indication of his wishes by which the data subject gives his consent to his
personal data being processed;
i) “Combination of data” shall mean a form of processing which consists of the
possibility of correlating data in a filing system or systems kept by another or
other controllers or kept by the same controller for other purposes.
2. In circumstances referred to in 1 a), a person is considered identifiable a person
who may be directly or indirectly identified by means of an identification number or
by means of one or more specific elements of his physical, physiological,
psychological, economic, cultural or social characteristics.
3. In circumstances referred to in 1 d), whenever the purposes or processing means
are determined by legislative provisions or regulations, the controller of the
processing must be indicated in the law of the organisation and operations or in the
statutes of the legal entity or statutorily competent for processing the personal data
in question.
CHAPTER II
Processing of personal data
Section I
Data quality and lawfulness of their processing
Article 6
Data quality
1. Personal data must be:
a) processed lawfully and with respect for the principle of good faith;
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further
processed in a way incompatible with those purposes;
c) adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which
they are collected and/or further processed;
d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date and adequate measures must
be taken to ensure that data which are inaccurate or incomplete are erased or
rectified having regard to the purposes for which they were collected or for
which they are further processed;
e) to be kept in a form that permits identification of their subjects for no longer
than is necessary for the purposes for which they were collected or for which
they are further processed.
2. Further processing of data for historical, statistical or scientific purposes as well
as their being stored for the same purposes for a period longer than that referred
to 1 e) above may be authorised by the CNPD at the request of the controller in
instances of legitimate interest for long as it does compromise the rights,
freedoms and guarantees of the data subject.
3. It shall be the responsibility of the controller to ensure that the above numbers
are complied with.

Article 7
Criteria for making data processing legitimate
Personal data may be processed only if the data subject has unambiguously given
his consent or if processing is necessary:
a) for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to
take steps at the request of the data subject;
b) for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
c) protection of vital interests of the data subject if the latter is physically or legally
incapable of giving his consent;
d) for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise
of official authority vested in the controller or in a third party to whom the data
are disclosed;
e) for pursuing the legitimate interests of the controller or the third party to whom
the data are disclosed, except where such interests should be overridden by the
interests or the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data subject.
Article 8
The processing of sensitive data
1. The processing of personal data revealing philosophical, ideological or political
beliefs or penalty, religion, political party or trade union affiliation, racial or
ethnic origin, privacy, health and sex life, including genetic data shall be
prohibited, except:
a) if the data subject expressed consent with the guarantee of non-discrimination
and with adequate measure of assurance;
b) with foreseen legal authorisation with the guarantee of non-discrimination and
with the adequate measure of assurance;
c) when the purpose of data processing are purely statistical, not individually
identifiable with the adequate measure of assurance.
2. In granting authorisation foreseen in 1 b) the law must take into consideration
particularly the indispensability of processing personal data referred to in 1 for
performing legal attributions or statutory authorities for reasons of important
public interest.
3. The processing of data referred to in 1 is also permitted when one of the
following conditions applies:
a) when it is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of
another person where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of
giving his consent;
b) when it is carried out with the data subject’s consent in the course of its
legitimate activities by a foundation, association or non-profit seeking body
with a political, philosophical, religious or trade union aim and on condition
that the processing relates solely to the members of the body or to persons
who have regular contact with it in connection with its purposes and that the
data are not disclosed to a third party without the consent of the data
subjects;

c) when it relates to data which are manifestly made public by the data subject,
provided his consent for their processing can be clearly inferred from his
declaration;
d) when it is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal
claims and is exclusively carried out for that purpose.
4. The processing of personal data relating to health and sex life, including genetic
data, shall be permitted if it is necessary for the purposes of preventive
medicine, medical diagnosis, the provision of medical care or treatment or the
management of health-care services, provided the processing of those data are
done by a health professional bound by professional secrecy or by another
person equally subjected to an equivalent professional secrecy and are notified
to CNPD under article 23, and adequate information safety measures are
guaranteed/provided.
5. The processing of data referred to in 1 may still be effected with adequate
information security measures, when the indispensable security of the state, of
public security, and the prevention, investigation or repression of penal
infringements are demonstrated.
Article 9
(Suspicion of illegal activities, penalties, security measures, infringements,
criminal and administrative offences)
1. Central registers relating to persons suspected of illegal activities, criminal and
administrative offences and decisions applying penalties, security measures,
fines and additional penalties may only be created and kept by public services
vested with the specific responsibility by virtue of the law establishing their
organisation and functioning, subject to observance of procedural and data
protection rules provided for in a legal order, with the prior opinion of the of
CNPD.
2. The processing of data related to persons suspected of illegal activities, criminal
and administrative offences and decisions applying penalties, security measures,
fines and additional penalties may be authorised by the CNPD, subject to
observance of the rules for the protection of data and the security of information,
when such processing is necessary for pursuing the legitimate purposes of the
controller, provided the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject are
not overridden.
3. The processing of personal data for the purposes of police investigations shall be
restricted to the processing necessary to prevent a specific danger or to prosecute
a particular offence and to exercise the responsibilities provided for in the
respective implementing statutes or another legal provision or in the terms of
international agreement or convention to which Cape Verde is a party.
Article 10
Combination of personal data
1. The combination of personal data not provided for in a legal provision shall be
subject to the authorisation of the Parliamentary Committee of Investigation,

requested by the controller or jointly by the corresponding controllers under
Article 23.
2. The combination of personal data must be necessary for pursuing the legal or
statutory purposes and legitimate interests of the controller, must not involve
discrimination or a reduction in the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data
subjects, and must be covered by adequate security measures and take account
of the type of data subject combination.
Section II
Rights of the data subject
Article 11
(Right to information)
1. The controller or his representative shall provide a data subject from whom data
relating to himself are collected with the following information, except where he
already has such information:
a) the identity of the controller and of his representative, if any;
b) the purposes of the processing;
c) the recipients or categories of recipients;
d) the obligatory or voluntary nature of the replies as well as the possible
consequences of failure to reply;
e) the existence and conditions of the right of access and the right to rectify
provided they are necessary, considering specific circumstances of collection
of the data in order to guarantee the data subject that they will be processed
fairly;
f) the decision of providing personal data for the first time to a third party for
purposes provided in 13 c), previously and with expressed indication that it
is his right to be against such communication;
g) the decision that his personal data be used by a third party, previously and
with expressed indication that it is his right to be against such
communication;
2. The documents supporting the collection of personal data shall contain the
information set down in the previous number.
3. If the data are not collected from the data subject and except where he already
has such data, the controller or his representative must provide the data subject
with the information set down in 1 at the time of undertaking the
recording/registering of data or, if a disclosure to third parties is envisaged, no
later than the time the data are first disclosed.
4. If data are collected from open networks, the data subject shall be informed,
except where he is already aware of this, that personal data relating to him may
be circulated on the network without security measures and may be at risk of
being seen and used by unauthorised third parties.
5. The obligation to provide information may be waived for reasons of State
security, crime prevention and investigation and also when processing data for
statistical, historical and scientific research purposes, when the
information/identification of the data subject would seem impossible involve a

disproportionate effort or when the law expressly determines the
recording/registering of such data or its dissemination.
6. The obligation to provide information shall not apply to the processing of data
carried out solely for journalistic purposes or the purpose of artistic or literary
expression, except at the detriment of rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data
subject.
Article 12
Right of access
1. The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller, without constraints,
with reasonable intervals and without excessive delay or expense:
a) confirmation as to whether or not data relating to him are being processed
and information as to the purposes of the processing, the categories of data
concerned and the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data are
disclosed;
b) communication in an intelligible form of the data undergoing processing and
of any available information as to their source;
c) knowledge of the logic involved in any automatic processing of data
concerning him, the automated decisions referred to as in 1 of Article 14;
d) the rectification, erasure or blocking of data the processing of which does not
comply with the provisions of the present law, especially due to the
incomplete or inaccurate character of the data;
e) notification to third parties to whom the data have been disclosed of any
rectification, erasure or blocking carried out in compliance with d) unless
this proves impossible or implies disproportionate effort.
2. In cases provided in 4 and 5 of Article 8, the right to access is exercised by
means of the CNPD.
3. In the case provided in 6 of Article 11, the right of access is exercised by means
of the CNPD, securing the constitutional rules applicable, in particular those
guaranteeing freedom of expression and information, freedom of the press and
the professional independence and secrecy of journalists.
4. In cases provided for in 2 and 3 of this Article, if communication of the data
might jeopardise State security, the prevention and investigation of crime, and
freedom of expression and information or freedom of the press, the CNPD shall
only inform the data subject of the measures taken.
5. The right of access to information relating to health data, including genetic data,
is exercised by means of the doctor chosen by the data subject.
6. If the data are used for taking measures or decisions regarding any particular
individual(s), the law may restrict the right to access where there is clearly no
risk of breaching the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data
subject, particularly the right to privacy, and when that data are used solely for
purposes of scientific research or are kept in personal form for a period which
does not exceed the period necessary for the sole purpose of creating statistics.
Article 13
(Data subject’s right to object)

The data subject has the right to:
a) except where otherwise provided by law, and at least in cases referred to in
Article 7 d) and e) to object at any time on compelling legitimate grounds
relating to his particular situation to the processing of data relating to him, and
where there is a justified objection, the processing effected by the controller may
no longer involve those data;
b) to object on request and free of charge to the processing of personal relating to
him which the controller anticipates being processed for the purposes of direct
marketing or any other form of research, or to be informed before personal data
are disclosed for the first time to third parties for the purposes of direct
marketing or for use on behalf of third parties, and to be expressly offered the
right to object free of charge to such disclosure or uses;
c) to object, without expense, that his personal data be communicated for the first
time to third parties for purposes provided for in b) above or to be used by third
parties.
Article 14
(Non-subjection to automated individual decisions)
1. Every person shall have the right not to be subject to a decision which produces
legal effects concerning him or significantly affects him and which is based
solely on automated processing of data intended to evaluate certain personal
aspects relating to him, in particular his performance at work, creditworthiness,
reliability or conduct.
2. Without prejudice to compliance with other provisions of this Law, a person
may be subject to a decision taken under 1 if that decision is taken in the course
of the entering into or performance of a contract, provided that the request for
the entering into or the performance of the contract has been satisfied, or that
there are suitable measures to safeguard his legitimate interests, particularly,
arrangements allowing him to put his point of view.
3. The taking of a decision under 1 may also be permitted when authorised by the
CNPD, which shall lay down measures to safeguard the data subject’s legitimate
interest.

Section III
Security and confidentiality of (data) processing
Article 15
(Security of processing)
1. The controller must implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful destruction or
accidental loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access, in particular when
the processing involves the transmission of data over a network, and against all
other unlawful forms of processing.

2. The measures provided for in 1 above must ensure, considering the state of the
art and the cost of their implementation, such measures shall ensure an adequate
level of security appropriate to the risks represented by the processing face and
the nature of the data to be protected.
3. When processing is carried out on his behalf, the controller must choose a
processor providing sufficient guarantees in respect of the technical security
measures and organisational measures governing the processing to be carried
out, and must ensure compliance with those measures.
4. The carrying out of processing by way of a processor must be governed by a
contract or legal act binding the processor to the controller and stipulating in
particular that the processor shall act only on instructions from the controller and
that the obligations referred to in 1 shall also be incumbent on the processor.
5. Proof of the will to negotiate, the contract or the legal act relating to data
protection and the requirements relating to the measures referred to in 1 shall be
in writing in a supporting document legally certified as affording proof.
Article 16
(Special security measures)
1. The controllers of the data referred to in paragraphs of 1, in 2 and 5 of Article 8
and in 1 of Article 9 shall take adequate measures and added information
security, particularly to:
a) prevent unauthorised persons access to the premises used for processing data
(control of entry to the premises);
b) prevent data media from being read, copied, altered/modified by
unauthorised persons (control of data media);
c) prevent unauthorised input as well as unauthorised obtaining of knowledge,
the alteration or elimination of personal data input (control of input);
d) prevent automatic data processing systems from being used by unauthorised
persons by means of data transmission premises (control of use);
e) guarantee that authorised persons may only access data covered by
authorisation (control of access);
f) guarantee the checking of entities to whom personal data may be transmitted
by means of data transmission premises (control of transmission);
g) guarantee that it is possible to check a posteriori, in a period appropriate to
the nature of the processing, the establishment in the regulations applicable
to each sector of which personal data are introduced, when and by whom
(control of input);
h) prevent unauthorised reading, copying, altering, or eliminating of data in
transmitting and transporting personal data (control of transport).
2. Taking account of the nature of the entities responsible for processing and the
type of premises in which it is carried out, the CNPD may waive the existence of
certain security measures, subject to guaranteeing respect for the fundamental
rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data subjects.
3. The systems must guarantee the logical separation between data relating to
health and sex life, including genetic data, and other personal data.

4. Where circulation over a network of the data referred to in 8 and 9 may
jeopardise the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of their data
subjects, the CNPD may determine that transmission must be encoded.
Article 17
(Processing confidentiality)
Any person acting under the authority of the controller or the processor, including the
processor himself, who has access to personal data must not process them except on
instructions from the controller, unless he is required to do so by law.
Article 18
(Professional secrecy)
1.Controllers and persons who obtain knowledge of the personal data processed in
carrying out their functions shall be bound by professional secrecy, even after their
functions have ended.
2.Members of the CNPD shall be subject to the same obligation even after their
mandate has ended.
3.The provision in the previous numbers shall not exclude the duty to supply the
obligatory information according to the law, except when it is contained in filing
systems organised for statistical purposes.
4.Officers/agents or staff who serve as consultants for the CNPD or its members are
subjected to the same obligation of professional secrecy.
CHAPTER III
Transfer of personal data
SECTION I
Article 19
(Principles)
1. Without prejudice to the following Article, the transfer of personal data which
are undergoing processing or intended for processing may only take place
subject to compliance with the present Law and other legislation applicable to
issues of personal data protection and, undergoing processing for transfer to
another State, a country which has an adequate level of data protection.
2. The adequacy of the level of protection shall be assessed in light of all the
circumstances surrounding a data transfer or set of data transfers, in particular,
the nature of the data, the purpose and duration of the proposed processing, the
country of origin and country of final destination, the rules of law, both general
and sectoral, in force in the State in question, as well as the professional rules
and security measures which are complied with in that country.
3. It is for the CNPD to decide whether a foreign State ensures an adequate level of
protection.
Article 20

(Derogations)
1. The transfer of personal data to a State which does not ensure an adequate level
of protection within the context of 19 2) may be allowed by the CNPD if the data
subject has given his unequivocal consent to the proposed transfer or if that
transfer:
a) is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and
the controller of the processing the data or the precontractual measures taken
in response to the request of the subject;
b) is necessary for the execution/performance or the signing of a concluded or
to be concluded contract in the interest of the data’s subject between the
controller and a third party;
c) is necessary or legally required on the grounds of important public interest,
or for the establishment, exercise of defence of legal claims;
d) is necessary for the protection of vital interests of the data’s subject;
e) is made from a public register, within the contexts of the laws or regulations,
is intended for information of the public and which is open to consultation
either by the general public or by any person who can demonstrate legitimate
interest provided the conditions laid down in law for consultation are
fulfilled in this case.
2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the CNPD may authorise a transfer or set of
transfers of personal data to a State which does not ensure an adequate level of
protection within the meaning of Article 19 2) for as long as the processing
controller provides adequate guarantees with respect to the protection of the
privacy and fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and with respect to
their exercise, particularly by means of appropriate contractual clauses.
3. The transfer of personal data which is necessary for the protection of State
security, defence, public safety and the prevention, investigation and repression
of punishable criminal offences shall be governed by special legal provisions or
by the international conventions to which Cape Verde is party.
CHAPTER IV
National authority for the investigation of the protection of personal data
Section I
General provisions
Article 21
(Objectives of the investigation)
The supervisory of personal data protection shall seek to follow-up, evaluate and control
the activities of legally competent organs or services for its processing, safeguarding the
fulfilment of the Constitution and the Law, especially the fundamental rights, freedoms
and guarantees of citizens.
Article 22
(Nature of the investigation)

1. The supervisory of personal data protection is an independent administrative
authority, CNPD, which operates within the National Assembly.
2. The CNPD is regulated by the Law.
Section II
Notification
Article 23
(Obligation to notify the CNPD)
1. The controller or his representative, if any, must notify the CNPD before
carrying out any whole or partial automatic processing operation or set of
operations intended to serve a single purpose or several purpose or several
related purposes.
2. The CNPD may authorise the simplification of or exemption from notification
for particular categories of processing which are unlikely, taking account of the
data to be processed, to affect adversely the rights and freedoms of the data
subjects and in to take account of criteria of speed, economy and efficiency.
3. The authorisation, which must specify the purposes of the processing, the data or
categories of data to be processed, the category or categories of recipients to
whom the data may be disclosed and the length of time the data are to be stored.
4. Processing whose sole purpose is the keeping of a register which according to
law or regulations is intended to provide information to the public and which is
open to consultation by the public in general or by nay person demonstrating a
legitimate interest shall be exempted from notification.
5. The non-authorised processing of the personal data provided for in paragraph 1
of Article 8 shall be subject to notification when they are processed under
Article 3 a).
Article 24
(Prior checking)
1. Except authorised by legal ruling, authorisation of the CNPD is required for:
a) the processing of personal data referred to in subsections a) and e) of
paragraph 1 of Article 8 and paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 9;
b) the processing of personal data relating to credit and the solvency of the data
subjects;
c) the combination of personal data as provided for in Article 9;
d) the use of personal data for purposes not giving rise to their collection.
2. The legal ruling which authorises the processing of data referred to in the
previous number requires the opinion of the CNPD.
Article 25
(Content of applications for opinions or authorisation and notification)
Applications for opinions or authorisations as well as notifications submitted to the
CNPD shall include the following information:

a) the name and address of the controller and of his representative, if any;
b) the purposes of the processing;
c) the description of the category or categories of data subjects and of the data or
categories of personal data relating to them;
d) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data might be disclosed
and in what circumstances;
e) the entity entrusted with processing the information, if it is not the controller
himself;
f) any combinations of personal data processing;
g) the length of time required for keeping personal data;
h) the form and circumstances in which the data subjects may be informed of or
may correct the personal data relating to them;
i) proposed transfers of data to third countries;
j) a general description enabling a preliminary assessment to be made of the
adequacy of the measures taken under Articles 15 and 16 to ensure security of
processing.
Article 26
(Obligatory information)
1. The legal provisions referred to in subsection b) of paragraph 1 of Article 8 and
paragraph 1 of Article 9 as well as the authorisation of the CNPD and the
personal data processing filing system must, at least, indicate:
a) the controller of the file and his representative, if any;
b) the category of personal data processed;
c) the purpose(s) of the data and the categories of the entities to whom they
might be disclosed;
d) the form of exercising the right of access and rectification;
e) the combinations of personal data processing;
f) the proposed transfers of data to third parties.
2. Any change in the information referred to in 1 shall be subject to the procedures
provided in in Articles 23 and 24.
Article 27
(Publishing processing operations)
1. When personal data processing is not covered by a legal provision and must be
authorised or notified it shall be set down in a CNPD register open to
consultation by any person.
2. The register shall contain the information listed in paragraphs a) to d) and i) of
Article 25.
3. The controller not subject to notification shall make available adequate
information to any person that requests, at least, the information referred to in
paragraph 1 of Article 26.
4. This Article does not apply to processing whose sole purpose is the keeping of a
register which according to laws or regulations is intended to provide

information to the public and which is open to consultation either by the public
in general or by any person who can provide proof of a legitimate interest.
5. The CNPD must indicate in its annual report all the opinions and authorisations
drawn up and granted, particularly authorisations provided for in paragraph 1 of
Article 8 and paragraph 2 of Article 10.
CHAPTER V
Codes of conduct
Article 28
Purposes
The codes of conduct are intended to contribute in relation to the characteristics of
the different sectors for the proper implementation of the provisions of the present
Law.
Article 29
Interventions of CNPD
1. The CNPD shall help in the elaboration of the codes of conduct.
2. Trade Associations and other entities representing other categories of controllers
of data processing which have drawn up draft codes of conduct shall submit
them for the appreciation of the CNPD.
3. The CNPD may declare whether the drafts are in accordance with the laws and
regulations in force in the area of personal data protection.
CHAPTER VI
Legal/Judicial recourse, Liability, infringements and penalties
Section I
Legal/Judicial recourse and liability
Article 30
(Legal/Judicial recourse)
Without prejudice to the right to submit a complaint to the CNPD, according to the law
any individual may seek legal recourse regarding violations of his rights granted him by
the present law.
Article 31
(Liability)
1. Any person who has suffered damage as a result of an unlawful processing
operation or any other act incompatible with legal provisions in the rea of
personal data protection is entitled to receive compensation from the controller
for the damage suffered.
2. The controller may be exempted from this liability, in whole or in part, if he
proves that he is not responsible for the fact that give rise to the damage.

Section II
Infringements and penalties
Subsection
Offences
Article 32
(Subsidiary legislation)
The offences provided for in this subsection subsidiarily applicable to the system of
offences with constant adaptations of the following/subsequent articles.
Article 33
(Omission or inadequate compliance with obligations)
1. Entities which negligently fail to comply with the obligation to notify the CNPD
of the processing of personal data referred to in in paragraphs 1 and 5 of Article
23, provide false information or comply with the obligation to notify with
observing the terms provided in Article 25, or after being notified by the CNPD,
continue to allow access to open data transmission networks to controllers who
fail to comply with the provisions of the Law are committing an offence
punishable with the following fines:
a) In the case a single individual a minimum of CVE 50,000 and a maximum of
CVE 500,000;
b) In the case of a group of people or an entity without legal personality a
minimum of CVE 300,000 and a maximum of CVE 3,000,000.
2. The fine shall be increased to double the maximum in the case of data subject to
prior authorisation according to article 24.
Article 34
(Other offences)
1. Entities which fail to comply with any of the following provisions of this law are
committing an offence punishable with a minimum of CVE 100,000 and a
maximum of CVE 1,000,000:
a) Appointment of a representative according to paragraph 4 of Article 2;
b) Observance of the obligations in Articles 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 and
paragraph 3 of Article 27.
2. The fine shall be increased to double the maximum in the case of failure to
comply with Articles 7, 8, 9, 10, 19 and 20.
Article 35
(Concurrent offences)
1. If the same fact is simultaneously a crime and an offence the agent shall always
be punishable by virtue of the crime.
2. The penalties applied to concurrent offences shall always be materially
accumulated.

Article 36
(Punishment of negligence and attempt)
1. Negligence shall always be punished in relation to offences provided for in
Article 34.
2. Any attempt to commit an offence provided for in Articles 33 and 34 shall
always be liable to punishment.
Article 37
(Application of fines)
1. The president of the CNPD is responsible for the application of the fines
provided for in this Law subject to prior deliberation by the Commission.
2. The deliberations of the CNPD shall be enforceable if it is not challenged within
the statutory period.
Article 38
(Compliance with duty omitted)
Whenever the offence arises from omitting a duty, application of the penalty and
payment of the fine do not release the perpetrator from compliance with that duty, if it is
possible.
Article 39
(Distribution of proceeds collected)
The sums collected as a result of the application of fines shall be for the CNPD.
Subsection II
Crimes
Article 40
(Non-compliance with obligations relating to data protection)
1. It is punishable with imprisonment of up to one year or a fine of up to 120 days,
anyone who intentionally:
a) omits notifications or the application for authorisation referred to in Articles
23 and 24;
b) provides false information in the notification or in applications for
authorisation for the processing of personal data or makes alterations in the
latter which are not permitted by the legalisation instrument;
c) misappropriates or uses personal data in a form incompatible with the
purpose of the collection or with the legalisation instrument;
d) promotes or carries out an illegal combination of personal data;
e) fails to comply with the obligations provided for in this Law or in other data
protection legislation when the time limit fixed by the CNPD for complying
with them has expired;

f) continues to allow access to open data transmission networks to controllers
who fail to comply with the provisions of this Act after notification by the
CNPD not to do so.
2. The penalty shall be increased to double the maximum in the case of the
personal data referred to in Article 8 and 9.
Article 41
(Undue access)
1. Any person who without due authorisation gains access by any means to
personal data prohibited to him shall be liable to up tone year imprisonment or a
fine of up to 120 days.
2. The penalty shall be increased to double the maximum when access:
a) is achieved by means of violating technical security rules;
b) allows the agent or third parties to obtain knowledge of the personal data;
c) provides the agent or third parties with a benefit or material advantage.
3. In the case of 1 criminal proceedings are dependent upon a complaint.
Article 42
(Invalidation or destruction of personal data)
1. Any person who without the authorisation erases, destroys, damages, deletes, or
changes personal data, making them unusable or affecting their capacity for use,
shall be liable to up to two years imprisonment or a fine of up to 240 days.
2. The penalty shall be increased to double the maximum if the damage caused is
particularly serious.
3. If the agents acts with negligence the penalty in both cases shall be up to one
year imprisonment or a fine of up to 120 days.
Article 43
(Qualified non-compliance)
1. Any person who after being notified to do so does not interrupt, cease or block the
processing of personal data shall be subject to a penalty corresponding to the
crime of qualified non-compliance.
2. The same penalty shall apply to any person who after being notified:
a) without just cause refuses to provide the collaboration specifically required of
him by the CNPD according to the law;
b) does not erase or totally or partially destroy the personal data;
c) does not destroy the personal after the period for keeping them provided for in
Article 6 has elapsed.
Article 44
(Violation of the duty of secrecy)
1. Any person bound by professional secrecy according to the law who without just
cause and without due consent reveals or discloses personal data, totally or in
part, shall be liable to imprisonment from six months to up to three years or a

fine of eighty to two hundred days, if the maximum penalty is applied to him
corresponding to the gravity of his crime should he not be dismissed from his
position or function.
2. The penalty shall be increased by half if the agent:
a) is a civil servant or equivalent, according to penal law;
b) acts with the intention of obtaining a material advantage or other unlawful
gain;
c) adversely affects the reputation, honour and esteem or the privacy of another
person.
3. A person guilty of negligence shall be liable to up to six months imprisonment
or a fine of up to 120 days.
4. Other than the cases provided in 2, criminal proceedings are dependent on a
complaint.
Article 45
(Punishment of attempt)
Any attempt to commit the crimes provided for in the above provisions shall always be
liable to punishment.
Article 46
(Additional penalties)
1. The following may be ordered in addition to the fines and penalties applied:
a) temporary or permanent prohibition of processing, blocking, erasure or total
or partial destruction of data;
b) publication of the judgement;
c) public warning or censure of the controller of the processing.
2. The judgement shall be published at the expense of the person judged in the
periodical with the largest circulation published in the area of the district where
the infringement was committed, or in a periodical in the nearest district, and by
means of affixing a notice for a period of no less than 30 days.
3. Publication shall be done by means of a summary containing information on the
offense and the penalties applied and the identification of the agent.
CHAPTER VII
Final Provisions
Article 47
(Existing manual filing system)
1. The processing of data held in manual filing systems on the date of the entry into
force of this Law shall be brought into conformity with Articles 8, 9, 11 and 12
within six months.
2. At his request the data subject may in any event, in particular when exercising the
right of access, obtain the rectification, erasure or blocking of incomplete or
inaccurate data or data kept in a manner incompatible with the legitimate purposes
of the controller.

3. The CNPD may provide that the data held in manual filing systems and kept
solely for the purposes of historical research need not be brought into conformity
with Articles 8, 9 and 10 provided they are in no case reused for a different
purpose.
Article 48
(Existing automated filing system)
The existing automated files on the date of the entry into force of this Law must
rigorously accomplish what those files and adapt them within a period of six months.
Article 49
(Entry into force)
This Law comes into force thirty days following its publication.
Approved on 20 December 2000.
The President of the Assembleia Nacional, António do Espírito Santo Fonseca.
Enacted on 10 January 2001.
Hereby published.
The President of the Republic of Cape
MASCARENHAS GOMES MONTEIRO.

Verde,

ANTÓNIO

MANUEL

Counter-signed on 13 January 2001.
The President of the Assembleia Nacional, António do Espírito Santo Fonseca.
________________

