CAYMAN ISLANDS

Supplement No. 1 published with Gazette No. 12
dated 5th June, 2017.

THE DATA PROTECTION LAW, 2017
(LAW 33 OF 2017)

The Data Protection Law, 2017

THE DATA PROTECTION LAW, 2017
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART 1 - INTERPRETATION, PRINCIPLES, APPLICATION,
OBLIGATIONS AND OFFICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Short title and commencement
Interpretation
Sensitive personal data
Special purposes
The data protection principles: content, consent and duty to comply
Application of Law: duty to nominate a Cayman Islands representative
Information Commissioner

PART 2 - RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DATA SUBJECTS AND
OTHERS
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

Fundamental rights of access to personal data
Treatment of requests under section 8
Right to stop processing
Right to stop processing for direct marketing
Rights in relation to automated decision-making
Compensation for failure to comply
Rectification, blocking, erasure or destruction
PART 3 - RESTRICTED PROCESSING AND PERSONAL DATA
BREACHES

15. Preliminary determination by Commissioner as to restricted processing
16. Personal data breaches
PART 4 - EXEMPTIONS
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

Effect of this Part
National security
Crime, government fees and duties
Health, education or social work
Monitoring, inspection or regulatory function
Journalism, literature or art
Research, history or statistics
Information available to public by or under enactments
Disclosures required by law or made in connection with legal proceedings
2

The Data Protection Law, 2017
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

Personal, family or household affairs
Honours
Corporate finance
Negotiations
Legal professional privilege and trusts
Exemptions by regulations
PART 5 - FUNCTIONS OF INFORMATION COMMISSIONER

32. Independence and powers
33. Commissioner to be subject to Public Service Management Law (2013
Revision)
34. Functions of Commissioner
35. Documents signed by Commissioner
36. Reports to Legislative Assembly and budget
37. International cooperation
38. Protection of Commissioner
39. Defamation
40. Consultation of Commissioner
41. Promotion of the Law by Commissioner
42. Codes of practice

43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.

PART 6 - ENFORCEMENT
Complaints
Information orders
Enforcement orders
Failure to comply with order
Right to seek judicial review
Commissioner to certify
Disclosure of information
Confidentiality of information
Entry and search of premises
Warrant not exercisable
Offences in respect of warrants
Unlawful obtaining etc. of personal data
Power of the Commissioner to impose monetary penalty
Guidance about monetary penalty orders
General provisions relating to offences
Liability for offences
PART 7 - GENERAL

59. Law binds Crown
60. Service of orders, etc.
61. Regulations
3

The Data Protection Law, 2017

SCHEDULE 1:
SCHEDULE 2:
SCHEDULE 3:
SCHEDULE 4:
SCHEDULE 5:

The Data Protection Principles and their Interpretation
First Principle - Conditions for Processing of Personal Data
First Principle - Conditions for Processing of Sensitive
Personal Data
Transfers to which Eighth Principle does not apply
Conditions of Consent

4

The Data Protection Law, 2017
CAYMAN ISLANDS

Law 33 of 2017
I Assent

Helen Kilpatrick

Governor.
18th May, 2017.

A LAW TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA;
AND FOR INCIDENTAL AND CONNECTED PURPOSES
ENACTED by the Legislature of the Cayman Islands.
PART 1 - INTERPRETATION, PRINCIPLES, APPLICATION,
OBLIGATIONS AND OFFICE
1.

(1) This Law may be cited as the Data Protection Law, 2017.

Short title and
commencement

(2) This Law shall come into force on such date as may be appointed by
Order made by the Cabinet, and different dates may be appointed for different
provisions of this Law and in relation to different matters.
2.

Interpretation

In this Law -

“business” includes any trade or profession;
“Commissioner” means the Information Commissioner appointed under section
35 of the Freedom of Information Law (2015 Revision);
“consent” in relation to a data subject means any freely given, specific, informed
and unambiguous indication of the data subject’s wishes by which the data
subject, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the
processing of personal data relating to the said data subject;
5

(2015 Revision)

The Data Protection Law, 2017
“data controller” means the person who, alone or jointly with others determines
the purposes, conditions and manner in which any personal data are, or are to be,
processed and includes a local representative referred to in section 6(2);
“data processor” means any person who processes personal data on behalf of a
data controller but, for the avoidance of doubt, does not include an employee of
the data controller;
“data protection principles” has the meaning referred to in section 5;
“data subject” means (a) an identified living individual; or
(b) a living individual who can be identified directly or indirectly by
means reasonably likely to be used by the data controller or by
any other person;
“enforcement order” means an order under section 45;
“health professional” means an individual registered to practise
under any of the professions specified in the Health Practice Law
(2013 Revision) or any other Law relating to health;

(2013 Revision)

“health record” means a record that (a)

consists of information relating to the physical health, mental
health or condition of a data subject; and
(b) has been made by or on behalf of a health professional in
connection with the care of that data subject;
“inaccurate”, in relation to personal data, includes data that are misleading,
incomplete or out of date;
“non-disclosure provisions” means the following provisions to the extent that
they are inconsistent with the disclosure in question Schedules 2 and 3

(a)

the first data protection principle, except to the extent to which it
requires compliance with the conditions in Schedules 2 and 3;
(b) the second and third data protection principles; and
(c) sections 10 and 14;
“person” includes any corporation, either aggregate or sole, and any club, society,
association, public authority or other body, of one or more persons;
“personal data” means data relating to a living individual who can be identified
and includes data such as 6

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a) the living individual’s location data, online identifier or one or
more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic,
mental, economic, cultural or social identity of the living
individual;
(b) an expression of opinion about the living individual; or
(c) any indication of the intentions of the data controller or any
other person in respect of the living individual;
“personal data breach” means a breach of security leading to the accidental or
unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of or, access to,
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed;
“processing”, in relation to data, means obtaining, recording or holding data, or
carrying out any operation or set of operations on personal data, including (a) organizing, adapting or altering the personal data;
(b) retrieving, consulting or using the personal data;
(c) disclosing the personal data by transmission, dissemination or
otherwise making it available; or
(d) aligning, combining, blocking, erasing or destroying the personal
data;
“public authority” means (a) a ministry, portfolio or department;
(b) a statutory body or authority, whether incorporated or not;
(c) a company which (i) is wholly owned by the Government or in which the
Government has a direct or indirect controlling interest; or
(ii) is specified in an Order made by the Cabinet; and
(d) any other body or organization specified by the Cabinet by Order
as a public authority on account of providing services of a public
nature which are essential to the welfare of Caymanian society;
“public register” means any register that, pursuant to a requirement imposed by
Law or in pursuance of an international agreement, is open to public inspection or
open to inspection by any person having a legitimate interest in the subject matter
of the register;
“publish”, in relation to journalistic, literary or artistic material, means to make
available to the public or any section of the public;
“recipient”, in relation to personal data, includes a person to whom the data are
disclosed, as well as any person (such as an employee or agent of the relevant
data controller, a relevant data processor, or an employee or agent of a data
processor) to whom they are disclosed in the course of processing the data for the
7

The Data Protection Law, 2017
data controller, but does not include a person to whom disclosure is or may be
made as a result of, or with a view to, a particular inquiry by or on behalf of that
person made in the exercise of any power conferred by law;
“registered company” means a company within the meaning of
section 2 of the Companies Law (2013 Revision);

(2013 Revision)

“regulations” means regulations made under this Law;
“sensitive personal data” has the meaning assigned in section 3;
“special purposes” has the meaning assigned in section 4;
“staff”, in relation to the Commissioner, includes any individual employed in the
office of the Commissioner;
“subject information provisions” means (a)
Schedule 1

the first data protection principle to the extent to which it requires
compliance with paragraph 2 of Part 2 of Schedule 1; and
(b) section 8; and
“third party”, in relation to personal data, means any person other than (a) the data subject;
(b) the data controller; or
(c) any data processor or other person authorized to process data for
the data controller or data processor.

Sensitive personal data

3. In this Law, “sensitive personal data” means, in relation to a data subject,
personal data consisting of (a) the racial or ethnic origin of the data subject;
(b) the political opinions of the data subject;
(c) the data subject’s religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar
nature;
(d) whether the data subject is a member of a trade union;
(e) genetic data of the data subject;
(f) the data subject’s physical or mental health or condition;
(g) medical data;
(h) the data subject’s sex life;
(i) the data subject’s commission, or alleged commission, of an
offence; or
(j) any proceedings for any offence committed, or alleged, to have
been committed, by the data subject, the disposal of any such
8

The Data Protection Law, 2017
proceedings or any sentence of a court in the Islands or
elsewhere.
4.

In this Law, “special purposes” means any one or more of the following -

Special purposes

(a) the purposes of journalism;
(b) artistic purposes; and
(c) literary purposes.
5. (1) References in this Law to the data protection principles are to the
principles set out in Part 1 of Schedule 1.
(2) The data protection principles shall be interpreted in accordance
with Part 2 of Schedule 1.
(3) Schedules 2 and 3 set out conditions that apply for the purposes of the
first principle and Schedule 4 sets out transfers to which the eighth principle does
not apply.

The data protection
principles: content,
consent and duty to
comply
Schedule 1

Schedules 2 and 3
Schedule 4

(4) Subject to section 17, a data controller shall comply with the data
protection principles that relate to the personal data that the data controller
processes, and shall ensure that the data protection principles are complied with
in relation to the personal data that are processed on the data controller’s behalf.
(5) In determining consent under this Law, the provisions of Schedule 5
shall apply.

Schedule 5

6. (1) This Law applies to a data controller in respect of any personal data
only if -

Application of Law;
duty to nominate a
Cayman Islands
representative

(a)

the data controller is established in the Islands and the personal
data are processed in the context of that establishment; or
(b) the data controller is not established in the Islands but the
personal data are processed in the Islands otherwise than for the
purposes of transit of the data through the Islands.
(2) A data controller referred to in subsection (1)(b) shall nominate, for
the purposes of this Law, a local representative established in the Islands who
shall, for all purposes within the Islands, be the data controller and, without
limiting the generality of this provision, bear all obligations under this Law as if
the representative were the data controller.
(3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), each of the following is to
be treated as established in the Islands (a)

an individual who is ordinarily resident in the Islands;
9

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(b) a body incorporated or registered as a foreign company under the
law of the Islands;
(c) a partnership or other unincorporated association formed under
the law of the Islands; or
(d) any person who does not fall within paragraph (a), (b) or (c) but
maintains in the Islands (i) an office, branch or agency through which the person
carries on any activity; or
(ii) a regular practice.
Information
Commissioner
(2015 Revision)

7. The provisions of the Freedom of Information Law (2015 Revision) relating
to the office of the Information Commissioner shall have effect with respect to
the Commissioner referred to in this Law.
PART 2 - RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DATA SUBJECTS AND
OTHERS

Fundamental rights of
access to personal data

8. (1) A person is entitled to be informed by a data controller whether the
personal data of which the person is the data subject are being processed by or on
behalf of that data controller, and, if that is the case, to be given by that data
controller a description of (a) the data subject’s personal data;
(b) the purposes for which they are being or are to be processed by
or on behalf of that data controller;
(c) the recipients or classes of recipients to whom the data are or
may be disclosed by or on behalf of that data controller;
(d) any countries or territories outside the Islands to which the data
controller, whether directly or indirectly, transfers, intends to
transfer or wishes to transfer the data;
(e) general measures to be taken for the purpose of complying with
the seventh data protection principle; and
(f) such other information as the Commissioner may require the data
controller to provide.
(2) A data subject is entitled to communication in an intelligible form, by
the relevant data controller, of (a) the data subject’s personal data; and
(b) any information available to the relevant data controller as to the
source of those personal data.
(3) If the processing by automatic means of the data subject’s personal
data for the purpose of evaluating matters relating to the data subject, including
the data subject’s performance at work, creditworthiness, reliability or conduct,
has constituted or is likely to constitute the sole basis for any decision
10

The Data Protection Law, 2017
significantly affecting the data subject, the data subject is entitled to be informed
by the relevant data controller of the reasons for that decision.
(4) A data controller shall not be obliged under subsection (1), (2) or (3) to
supply any personal data unless the data controller has received (a) a request in writing; and
(b) the fee that the data controller may require, such fee, being
within the limits prescribed by regulations.
(5) If a data controller reasonably requires further information in order to
be satisfied as to the identity of the data subject making the request or to locate
the information that the data subject seeks, and has informed the data subject in
writing of the requirement, the data controller is not obliged to comply with the
request unless supplied with that information, during which period the time
specified in subsection (6) shall automatically stand suspended.
(6) A data controller shall comply with a request under this section within
thirty days (or such other period as may be prescribed by regulations) of the date
on which the data controller receives both the request and fee referred to in
subsection (4), but where the data controller has requested further information
under subsection (5), the period shall not resume until the information has been
supplied.
(7) If a data controller cannot comply with the request without disclosing
personal data relating to another data subject who can be identified from that
personal data, the data controller is not obliged to comply with the request unless(a)

the other data subject has consented to the disclosure of the
personal data to the person making the request; or
(b) it is reasonable in all the circumstances to comply with the
request without the consent of the other data subject.
(8) In subsection (7), the reference to personal data relating to another data
subject includes a reference to personal data identifying that other data subject as
the source of the personal data sought in the request.
(9) Subsection (7) shall not be construed as excusing a data controller
from communicating so much of the personal data sought in the request as can be
communicated without disclosing the identity of the other data subject concerned,
whether by the omission of names or other identifying particulars or otherwise.
(10) In determining for the purposes of subsection (7)(b) whether it is
reasonable in all the circumstances to comply with the request without the

11

The Data Protection Law, 2017
consent of the other data subject concerned, the data controller shall have regard
to, in particular (a) any duty of confidentiality owed to the other data subject;
(b) any steps taken by the data controller to seek the consent of the
other data subject;
(c) whether the other data subject is capable of giving consent; and
(d) any express refusal of consent by the other data subject.
(11) If the Commissioner is satisfied on the application of a data subject
who has made a request under this section that a data controller has contravened
this section in failing to comply with the request, the Commissioner shall issue an
enforcement order under section 45 ordering the data controller to comply with
the request.
(12) If personal data are being processed by or on behalf of a data controller
who receives a request under this section from the data subject, the obligation to
supply the personal data under this section includes an obligation to give the data
subject a statement of the data subject’s rights under this Law in such form, and
to such extent, as may be prescribed by regulations.
Treatment of requests
under section 8

9. (1) The obligation imposed by section 8(2)(a) shall be complied with by
supplying the data subject with a copy of the personal data in the format
requested unless (a)

the supply of such a copy is not possible or would involve
disproportionate effort; or
(b) the data subject agrees otherwise.
(2) If any of the personal data referred to in section 8(2)(a) are expressed
in terms that are not intelligible without explanation the copy shall be
accompanied by an adequate explanation.
(3) If a data controller has previously complied with a request under
section 8 by the data subject referred to therein, the data controller is not obliged
to comply with a subsequent identical or similar request under that section by the
data subject unless the interval between compliance with the previous request and
the making of the current request is reasonable.
(4) In determining whether the interval referred to in subsection (3) is
reasonable, regard shall be had to the nature of the personal data, the purpose for
which the personal data are processed and the frequency with which the personal
data are altered.

12

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(5) Section 8(3) shall not be regarded as requiring the provision of
information as to the logic of any decision-making where the information
constitutes a trade secret.
(6) Personal data and other information supplied under section 8 shall be
supplied by reference to the data in question at the time when the request for the
personal data is received, except that account may be taken of any amendment or
deletion made between that time and the time when the information is supplied,
the amendment or deletion being such that would have been made regardless of
the receipt of the request.
10. (1) A data subject is entitled at any time, by notice in writing to a data
controller, to require the data controller to cease processing, or not to begin
processing, or to cease processing for a specified purpose or in a specified
manner, the data subject’s personal data.
(2) The data controller shall, as soon as practicable, but in any case within
twenty-one days of receiving a notice under subsection (1), comply with that
notice unless (a)

the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to
which the data subject is a party or the taking of steps at the
request of the data subject with a view to entering into a contract;
(b) the processing is necessary for compliance with any legal
obligation to which the data controller is subject, other than an
obligation imposed by contract;
(c) the processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests
of the data subject; or
(d) the processing is necessary in such other circumstances as may
be prescribed by regulations
and the data controller shall state to the data subject the reasons for the noncompliance with the notice.
(3) If, on the application of a data subject who has given notice under
subsection (1), the Commissioner is satisfied that the data controller in question
has failed to comply with the notice, the Commissioner may issue an enforcement
order under section 45.
(4) The failure by a data subject to exercise the right conferred by
subsection (1) does not affect any other right conferred on the data subject by this
Law.

13

Right to stop processing

The Data Protection Law, 2017
Right to stop processing
for direct marketing

11. (1) In this section, “direct marketing” means the communication, by
whatever means, of any advertising, marketing, promotional or similar material,
that is directed to particular individuals.
(2) A data subject is entitled at any time, by notice in writing to a data
controller, to require the data controller at the end of such period as is reasonable
in the circumstances, to cease, or not to begin, processing for the purposes of
direct marketing personal data relating to the data subject.
(3) If, on the application of a data subject who has given notice under
subsection (1), the Commissioner is satisfied that the data controller in question
has failed to comply with the notice, the Commissioner may issue an enforcement
order under section 45.
(4) The failure by a data subject to exercise the right conferred by
subsection (2) does not affect any other right conferred on the data subject by this
Law.

Rights in relation to
automated decisionmaking

12. (1) A data subject is entitled at any time, by notice in writing to a data
controller, to require the data controller to ensure that no decision taken by or on
behalf of the data controller that significantly affects the data subject is based
solely on the processing by automatic means of the data subject’s personal data
for the purpose of evaluating the data subject’s performance at work,
creditworthiness, reliability, conduct or any other matters relating to the data
subject.
(2) If no notice has been given under subsection (1) and a decision that
significantly affects a data subject is based solely on processing specified in that
subsection (a)

the data controller shall as soon as reasonably practicable notify
the data subject that the decision was taken on that basis; and
(b) the data subject is entitled, within twenty-one days of receiving
that notification from the data controller, by notice in writing, to
require the data controller to reconsider the decision or to take a
new decision otherwise than on that basis.
(3) The data controller shall, within twenty-one days of receiving a notice
under subsection (2)(b), give the data subject a written notice specifying the steps
that the data controller intends to take to comply with the notice.
(4) A notice under subsection (1) does not have effect in relation to, and
nothing in subsection (2) applies to, a decision -

14

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

in respect of which one condition in each of subsections (5) and
(6) is satisfied; or
(b) that is made in such other circumstances as may be prescribed by
regulations.
(5) The first condition is that the decision (a)

is taken in the course of steps taken (i) for the purpose of considering whether to enter into a
contract with the data subject;
(ii) with a view to entering into such a contract; or
(iii) in the course of performing such a contract; or
(b) is authorized or required by or under any enactment.
(6) The second condition is that (a)

the effect of the decision is to grant a request of the data subject;
or
(b) steps have been taken to safeguard the legitimate interests of the
data subject including by allowing the data subject to make
representations.
(7) If the Commissioner is satisfied on the application of a data subject
that a person taking a decision in respect of the data subject has failed to comply
with a notice under subsection (1) or (2)(b), the Commissioner may, among other
things, issue an enforcement order directing the data controller to reconsider the
decision where that decision is not based solely on the processing mentioned in
subsection (1).
13. A person who suffers damage by reason of a contravention by a data
controller of any requirement of this Law has a cause of action for compensation
from the data controller for that damage.

Compensation for failure
to comply

14. (1) If the Commissioner is satisfied on a complaint made under section 43
that personal data are inaccurate, the Commissioner may order the data controller
to rectify, block, erase or destroy -

Rectification, blocking,
erasure or destruction

(a) those data; and
(b) any other personal data in respect of which the person is the data
controller and that contain an expression of opinion that appears
to the Commissioner to be based on the inaccurate data.
(2) Subsection (1) applies whether or not the personal data accurately
record information received or obtained by the data controller from the data
subject or a third party, but, if the data accurately record such information, then
the Commissioner may instead of making an order under subsection (1) 15

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

make an order requiring the personal data to be supplemented by
a statement of the facts relating to the matters dealt with by the
data as the Commissioner may approve;
(b) make such order as the Commissioner thinks fit to ensure the
accuracy of the data, having regard to the purpose or purposes for
which the data were obtained and further processed, with or
without a further order requiring the data to be supplemented by
a statement of the facts relating to the matters dealt with by the
data as the Commissioner may approve; or
(c) make an order requiring the data controller to ensure that the data
indicate that, in the data subject’s view, the data are inaccurate.
(3) If the Commissioner (a) makes an order under subsection (1); or
(b) is satisfied on a complaint made under section 43 that personal
data that have been rectified, blocked, erased or destroyed were
inaccurate,
the Commissioner may, if it is considered reasonably practicable, order the data
controller to notify third parties to whom the data have been disclosed of the
rectification, blocking, erasure or destruction.
PART 3 - RESTRICTED PROCESSING AND PERSONAL DATA
BREACHES
Preliminary
determination by
Commissioner as to
restricted processing

15. The Cabinet may, after consultation with the Commissioner and such other
persons that the Cabinet may consider appropriate, make regulations prescribing
the types of processing that require the prior approval of the Commissioner, being
processing that is considered particularly likely to (a)

cause substantial damage or substantial distress to data subjects;
or
(b) otherwise significantly prejudice the rights and freedoms of data
subjects.
Personal data breaches

16. (1) In the case of a personal data breach, the data controller shall, without
undue delay, but no longer than five days after the data controller should, with the
exercise of reasonable diligence, have been aware of that breach, notify the data
subject of the data in question and the Commissioner of that personal data breach,
describing (a) the nature of the breach;
(b) the consequences of the breach;
(c) the measures proposed or taken by the data controller to address
the breach; and

16

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(d) the measures recommended by the data controller to the data
subject of the personal data in question to mitigate the possible
adverse effects of the breach.
(2) A data controller who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars.
PART 4 - EXEMPTIONS
17. Except as provided by this Part, the subject information provisions shall
have effect notwithstanding any law prohibiting or restricting the disclosure, or
authorizing the withholding, of information.

Effect of this Part

18. (1) Personal data are exempt from any of the provisions of -

National security

(a) the data protection principles; and
(b) Parts 2, 3 and 6,
if the exemption from any or all of the provisions is required for the purpose of
safeguarding national security.
(2) The Governor may, for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1), issue
a certificate with respect to any personal data exempting that data from all or any
of the provisions referred to in that subsection and that certificate shall be
sufficient evidence of that fact.
(3) In the exercise of the discretion to issue a certificate under subsection
(2), the Governor may consult with the National Security Council.
(4) The certificate issued under subsection (2) shall identify the personal
data to which it applies.
(5) If in any consideration of a matter by the Commissioner it is claimed
by a data controller that a certificate under this section applies to any personal
data, any party, that is, the Governor, the data controller or the data subject, may
make an application to the Commissioner contending that the certificate does not
apply to the personal data with respect to which the complaint is made.
(6) Notwithstanding subsection (5), unless the Commissioner makes a
determination under subsection (7), the certificate shall be conclusively presumed
so to apply.
(7) On an application under subsection (5), the Commissioner may
determine that the certificate does not apply to the personal data with respect to
which the complaint is made.
17

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(8) A document purporting to be a certificate under this section and signed
by the Governor shall be received in evidence and taken to be such a certificate
unless the contrary is proved.
Crime, government fees
and duties

19. (1) Personal data processed for any of the following purposes (a) the prevention, detection or investigation of crime;
(b) the apprehension or prosecution of persons who are suspected to
have committed an offence anywhere; or
(c) the assessment or collection of any fees or duty, or of any
imposition of a similar nature, in the Islands,
are exempt from the first data protection principle (except to the extent to which
it requires compliance with the conditions in Schedules 2 and 3), the nondisclosure provisions and section 8, to the extent to which the application of those
provisions to the data would be likely to prejudice any of the matters referred to
in paragraphs (a) to (c).
(2) Personal data that (a)

are processed for the purpose of discharging functions under any
Law; and
(b) consist of information obtained for such a purpose from a person
who had possession of it for any of the purposes referred to in
subsections (1)(a) to (c),
are exempt from the subject information provisions to the same extent as personal
data processed for any of the purposes referred to in subsections (1)(a) to (c).
Health, education or
social work

20. (1) The Cabinet may, by regulations, exempt from the subject information
provisions, or modify those provisions in relation to, personal data consisting of
information as to the physical or mental health or condition of the data subject.
(2) The Cabinet may, by regulations, exempt from the subject information
provisions, or modify those provisions, in relation to personal data in respect of
which the data controller is the proprietor, governor, governing body, director or
manager of, or a principal or teacher at a school, and the personal data consist of
information relating to persons who are or have been pupils at the school.
(3) The Cabinet may, by regulations, exempt from the subject information
provisions, (or modify those provisions in relation to,) personal data of such other
descriptions as may be specified in the regulations, being information (a)

processed by a public authority; and

18

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(b) appearing to the Cabinet to be processed in the course of, or for
the purposes of, carrying out social work in relation to the data
subject or other individuals,
to the extent that the Cabinet consider that the application to the data of those
provisions, (or of those provisions without modification), would be likely to
prejudice the carrying out of social work.
21. (1) Personal data which are processed for the purposes of any monitoring,
inspection or regulatory function connected with the exercise of a public function
in cases of -

Monitoring, inspection
or regulatory function

(a) public safety;
(b) the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of
criminal offences, or of breaches of ethics for regulated
professions; or
(c) an important economic or financial interest of the Islands,
including (i) compliance with international tax treaties or international
co-operation purposes;
(ii) any monitoring, inspection or regulatory function exercised
by official authorities (including regulation of the financial
services industry); and
(iii) any monetary, budgetary and taxation purposes in the
Islands,
are exempt from the subject information provisions to the extent to which the
application of those provisions to the data would be likely to prejudice the proper
discharge of the function.
(2) Subsection (1) applies to (a)

a public function conferred on any person by or under any Law
or regulations;
(b) a function of the Crown, the Governor in Cabinet or a public
authority; or
(c) any other function of a public nature.
22. (1) Personal data which are processed only for the special purposes are
exempt from any provision to which this section relates if (a)

the processing is undertaken with a view to the publication by a
person of any journalistic, literary or artistic material;
(b) the data controller reasonably believes that, having regard in
particular to the special importance of the public interest in
freedom of expression, publication would be in the public
interest; and
19

Journalism, literature or
art

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(c)

the data controller reasonably believes that, in all the
circumstances, compliance with that provision is incompatible
with the special purposes.

(2) This section relates to the following provisions (a)

the data protection principles except the seventh data protection
principle; and
(b) section 10.
(3) In considering, for the purposes of subsection (1)(b), whether the
belief of a data controller that publication would be in the public interest was or is
a reasonable one, regard may be had to the data controller’s compliance with any
code of practice that is relevant to the publication in question.
Research, history or
statistics

23. (1) In this section, “relevant conditions” means (a)

the condition that the personal data are not processed to support a
measure or decision with respect to a particular data subject; and
(b) the condition that the personal data are not processed in such a
way that substantial damage or substantial distress is likely to be
caused to any data subject.
(2) Personal data processed for statistical purposes or for the purposes of
historical or scientific research in compliance with the relevant conditions are
exempt from the first data protection principle to the extent to
which it requires compliance with paragraph 2(b) of Part 2 of Schedule 1
Schedule 1.
(3) Subsection (2) applies if (a)

the provision of such information proves impossible or would
involve a disproportionate effort; or
(b) processing is required by or under an enactment.
(4) For the purposes of the second data protection principle, the further
processing of personal data for the purpose of research, history or statistics in
compliance with the relevant conditions is not to be regarded as incompatible
with the purposes for which they were obtained.
(5) Personal data processed solely for the purposes of scientific research
or kept in a form that identifies a data subject for a period which does not exceed
the period necessary for the sole purpose of creating statistics are exempt from
section 8.
(6) Subsection (5) applies if 20

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

the data are processed in compliance with the relevant
conditions;
(b) there is no risk of breaching the rights and freedoms of the data
subject; and
(c) the results of the research or any resulting statistics are not made
available in a form that identifies one or more of the data
subjects.
(7) Personal data processed for historical, statistical or scientific purposes
in compliance with the relevant conditions are exempt from the fifth data
protection principle to the extent to which compliance would be likely to
prejudice those purposes.
24. Personal data are exempt from (a) the subject information provisions;
(b) the fourth data protection principle and section 14(1) to (3); and
(c) the non-disclosure provisions,

Information available to
public by or under
enactments

if the data consist of information that the data controller is obliged by or under
any enactment to make available to the public, including by inspection,
gratuitously or on payment of a fee.
25. (1) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions if the
disclosure is required by or under any enactment, by any law or by the order of a
court.

Disclosures required by
law or made in
connection with legal
proceedings

(2) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions if their
disclosure is necessary (a)

for the purpose of, in connection with, or in contemplation of,
any quasi-judicial or legal proceedings;
(b) for the purpose of obtaining legal advice; or
(c) otherwise for the purposes of establishing, exercising or
defending a legal right.
26. Personal data processed by an individual only for the purposes of that
individual’s personal, family or household affairs are exempt from the data
protection principles and Parts 2 and 3.

Personal, family or
household affairs

27. Personal data are exempt from the subject information provisions if
processed for the purposes of the conferring by the Crown or the Premier of any
honour or dignity.

Honours

21

The Data Protection Law, 2017
Corporate finance

28. (1) If personal data are processed for the purposes of, or in connection
with, a corporate finance service provided by a relevant person (a)

the data are exempt from the subject information provisions to
the extent to which either (i) the application of those provisions to the data could affect
the price of any instrument already in existence or that is to
be or may be created; or
(ii) the data controller reasonably believes that the application
of those provisions to the data could affect the price of any
such instrument; and
(b) to the extent that the data are not exempt from the subject
information provisions by virtue of paragraph (a), they are
exempt from those provisions if the exemption is required for the
purpose of safeguarding an important economic or financial
interest of the Islands.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) the Cabinet may by regulations
specify (a)

matters to be taken into account in determining whether
exemption from the subject information provisions is required for
the purpose of safeguarding an important economic or financial
interest of the Islands; or
(b) circumstances in which exemption from those provisions is, or is
not, to be taken to be required for that purpose.
(3) In this section “corporate finance service” means a service consisting of (a)

underwriting in respect of issues of, or the placing of issues of,
any instrument;
(b) advice to undertakings on capital structure, industrial strategy
and related matters and advice and service relating to mergers
and the purchase of undertakings; or
(c) services relating to such underwriting as mentioned in paragraph
(a);
“instrument” means an instrument representing investment within the meaning of
any Law in the Islands;
“price” includes value;
“relevant person” means -

22

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

a registered person within the meaning of any Law providing for
investment business or a person who is exempted by the
respective Law from the obligation to be registered in respect of
an investment business;
(b) a person who is an authorized person under any Law providing
for investment business, or is an exempt person under that Law,
in respect of the investment business;
(c) a person who may be prescribed by regulations for the purposes
of this section;
(d) a person who, in the course of the person’s employment, provides
to the employer a service falling within paragraph (b) or (c) of
the definition of “corporate finance service”; or
(e) a partner who provides to other partners in a partnership a service
falling within the provisions of either paragraph (b) or (c) of the
definition of “corporate finance service”.
29. Personal data which consist of records of the intentions of the data
controller in relation to any negotiations with the data subject are exempt from
the subject information provisions in any case to the extent to which the
application of those provisions would be likely to prejudice those negotiations.
30. Personal data are exempt from the subject information provisions if the data
consist of information -

(2011 Revision)
(2004 Revision)

Negotiations

Legal professional
privilege and trusts

(a) in respect of which legal professional privilege applies;
(b) in relation to (i) any structure or arrangement that is an ordinary trust;
(ii) any structure or arrangement that is a trust
established pursuant to the Trusts Law (2011
Revision); or
(iii) any will made pursuant to the Wills Law
(2004 Revision).

31. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Cabinet may, after consultation with the
Commissioner, by regulations (a)

exempt from subject information provisions personal data
consisting of information, the disclosure of which is prohibited or
restricted by or under any enactment; or
(b) exempt from the non-disclosure provisions personal data
consisting of information, the disclosure of which is made in
circumstances specified in the regulations.

23

Exemptions by
regulations

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(2) The Cabinet shall not grant an exemption under subsection (1) unless
it considers the exemption to be necessary for the purpose of safeguarding the
interests of data subjects or the rights and freedoms of any other individual.

PART 5 - FUNCTIONS OF INFORMATION COMMISSIONER
Independence and
powers

32. (1) The Commissioner shall have all powers, direct and incidental, as are
necessary or convenient to undertake the Commissioner’s functions as provided
for under this Law and for purposes of this section, the word “functions” includes
power, authority and duty.
(2) In the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions under this Law, the
Commissioner shall be independent and shall not be subject to the direction or
control of any other person or authority.
(3) The Commissioner may appoint such officers and employees as are
necessary to enable the performance of the Commissioner’s functions under this
Law.
(4) The Commissioner shall, from moneys appropriated by the Legislative
Assembly, meet operational expenses of the office and the provision of a reserve
fund and, where there is any balance separate from the reserve fund, pay such
balance into the general revenues of the Islands.
(5) The Cabinet may, by regulations, provide for the operation of the
reserve fund.

Commissioner to be
subject to Public Service
Management Law (2013
Revision)
(2015 Revision)
Functions of
Commissioner

33. Except as otherwise stated in this Law or the Freedom of Information Law
(2015 Revision), the Commissioner shall be subject to the Public Service
Management Law (2013 Revision).

34. The principal functions of the Commissioner include (a) to hear, investigate and rule on complaints made under this Law;
(b) to monitor, investigate and report on the compliance by data
controllers with their obligations under this Law;
(c) to intervene and deliver opinions and orders related to processing
operations;
(d) to order the rectification, blocking, erasure or destruction of data;
(e) to impose a temporary or permanent ban on processing;
(f) to make recommendations for reform both of a general nature
and directed at specific data controllers;
24

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(g)

(h)
(i)
(j)

to engage in proceedings where the provisions of this Law have
been violated, or refer these violations to the appropriate
authorities;
to co-operate with other data protection supervisory authorities;
to publicize and promote the requirements of this Law and the
rights of data subjects under it; and
to do anything which appears to the Commissioner to be
incidental or conducive to the carrying out of the
Commissioner’s functions under this Law.

35. A document that appears to have been signed by or on behalf of the
Commissioner shall be presumed to have been so signed and be admissible in any
proceedings unless the contrary is shown.

Documents signed by
Commissioner

36. The Commissioner shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of
each year, lay before the Legislative Assembly -

Reports to Legislative
Assembly and budget

(a)

a report of the operation of this Law during the year and may
from time to time submit such other reports as the Commissioner
thinks appropriate; and
(b) accounts audited in accordance with the Public Management and
Finance Law (2013 Revision).
37. (1) The Commissioner is the designated authority in the Islands for the
purposes of international cooperation related to data protection.

(2013 Revision)
International
cooperation

(2) The Commissioner shall also carry out any data protection functions
(that is, functions relating to the protection of individuals with respect to the
processing of personal information) that may be prescribed by regulations for the
purpose of enabling the Islands to give effect to any of its international
obligations.
38. Neither the Commissioner nor any member of staff of the Commissioner’s
office shall be liable in damages for anything done or omitted in the discharge or
purported discharge of their respective functions under this Law unless it is
shown that the act or omission was negligent or in bad faith.

Protection of
Commissioner

39. (1) It is a defence to any proceedings in libel or slander that information
supplied to the Commissioner was communicated to the Commissioner pursuant
to this Law.

Defamation

(2) It is a defence to any proceedings in libel or slander that information
communicated by a data controller to any person under this Law was
communicated to the data controller in the first instance by a third person, unless
the communication to or by the data controller was made maliciously.
25

The Data Protection Law, 2017
Consultation of
Commissioner

Promotion of the Law by
Commissioner

40. A public authority that is drawing up administrative measures or rules
relating to the protection of data subjects’ rights and freedoms with regard to data
processing shall consult the Commissioner on the content of such measures or
rules.
41. (1) The Commissioner shall promote good practice and observance of this
Law by data controllers.
(2) The Commissioner may arrange for the dissemination of information
about the operation of this Law, about good practice, and about other matters
within the scope of the Commissioner’s functions under this Law, and may give
advice to any person as to any of those matters.

Codes of practice

42. (1) The Cabinet may, after consulting with the Commissioner, make
regulations for the preparation and dissemination of codes of practice which may
be specific to a particular industry or processing operation.
(2) Any guidance under subsection (3) shall describe the personal data or
processing to which the code of practice shall relate, and may also describe the
persons or classes of persons to whom it shall relate.
(3) The Commissioner shall also (a)

if the Commissioner considers it appropriate to do so, encourage
trade associations to prepare, and to disseminate to their
members, codes of practice for guidance as to good practice; and
(b) if a trade association submits a code of practice for the
Commissioner’s consideration, consider the code and, after such
consultation with data subjects or persons representing data
subjects as appears to the Commissioner to be appropriate, notify
the trade association whether, in the Commissioner’s opinion, the
code promotes good practice.
(4) The Commissioner may, with the consent of the relevant data
controller, assess any processing of personal data for the adherence to good
practice and shall inform the data controller of the results of the assessment.
(5) The Commissioner may charge such fees as may be considered fit for
any services provided by the Commissioner under this Law.
(6) In this section -

26

The Data Protection Law, 2017
“good practice” means such practice in the processing of personal data as appears
to the Commissioner to be desirable having regard to the interests of data subjects
and others, and includes compliance with the requirements of this Law; and
“trade association” includes any body representing data controllers.
(7) The Commissioner shall also provide the Cabinet with a copy of any
code of practice prepared under subsection (1), unless the code is included in any
report provided to the Cabinet.
(8) The Commissioner shall cause to be laid a copy of a report, or of a
code provided under subsection (7) before the Legislative Assembly as soon as
practicable after the Cabinet receives the report or a copy of the code.
PART 6 - ENFORCEMENT
43. (1) A complaint may be made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of any
person about the processing of personal data that has not been or is not being
carried out in compliance with the provisions of this Law or anything required to
be done pursuant to this Law.
(2) A person submitting a complaint on behalf of another under subsection
(1) shall provide written authorization from the aggrieved person.
(3) On receiving a complaint referred to in subsection (1), or on the
Commissioner’s own motion, the Commissioner may conduct an investigation.
(4) The matters to which the Commissioner may have regard in
determining whether or not to conduct an investigation referred to in subsection
(1) include (a)

the extent to which the complaint appears to the Commissioner to
raise a matter of substance;
(b) any undue delay in making the complaint;
(c) whether a complaint is frivolous or vexatious; and
(d) whether or not the person making the complaint is entitled to
make a request under section 8 in respect of the personal data in
question.
(5) The Commissioner may consult with the Information and
Communications Technology Authority with regards to the enforcement
functions under this Law where the matters before the Commissioner relate to the
operation of information and communications technology networks, the provision
of related services or on the application of the seventh data protection principle.

27

Complaints

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(6) The Information and Communications Technology Authority shall
comply with any reasonable request made by the Commissioner, in accordance
with the Commissioner’s enforcement functions, for advice on technical and
similar matters relating to the operation of information and communications
technology networks, the provision of related services or on the application of the
seventh data protection principle.
Information orders

44. (1) The Commissioner may require any person to provide such
information as the Commissioner may reasonably consider appropriate for the
purpose of carrying out the Commissioner’s functions under this Law including
any information with respect to which an exemption is claimed.
(2) A person who is required to provide information under this section
shall provide it in such a manner, form and within such reasonable period as the
Commissioner may specify.
(3) An information requirement under this section shall also contain
particulars of the right to seek judicial review conferred by section 47.
(4) A person who refuses or, without reasonable excuse, fails to supply
information required under subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term of five years, or both.
(5) A person who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys information
that is required to be produced under subsection (1) commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars or to imprisonment
for a term of five years or both.
(6) A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a
requirement made under subsection (1), the person (a)

makes a false statement that the person knows to be false in a
material respect; or
(b) recklessly makes a statement that is false in a material respect,
and is liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars or to
imprisonment for a term of five years, or to both.
Enforcement orders

45. (1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for
believing that a data controller has contravened, is contravening or is likely to
contravene any provision of this Law, the Commissioner may, with a view to
effecting the data controller’s compliance with the provision, by way of an order
served on the data controller, require that data controller to 28

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

take specified steps within a specified time, or to refrain from
taking specified steps after a specified time;
(b) refrain from processing any personal data, or any personal data of
a specified description;
(c) refrain from processing data for a specified purpose or in a
specified manner, after a specified time; or
(d) do anything which appears to the Commissioner to be incidental
or conducive to the carrying out of the Commissioner’s functions
under this Law.
(2) An enforcement order shall include (a)

a statement of the provision which the Commissioner is satisfied
has been or is being contravened and the reasons for reaching
that conclusion; and
(b) particulars of the right to seek judicial review conferred by
section 47.
(3) If (a)

an order requires a data controller to rectify, block, erase or
destroy any personal data; or
(b) the Commissioner is satisfied that personal data that have been
rectified, blocked, erased or destroyed had been processed in
contravention of any of the data protection principles,
that order may, if it is reasonably practicable, require the data controller to notify
third parties to whom the data have been disclosed of the rectification, blocking,
erasure or destruction.
(4) The Commissioner shall, in determining whether it is reasonably
practicable to require an enforcement order under subsection (3), have regard in
particular to the number of persons who would have to be notified.
46. (1) Subject to subsections 47 and 48, a person who fails to comply with an
information requirement, enforcement order or monetary penalty order under this
Law commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term of five years, or both.

Failure to comply with
order

(2) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection
(1) to prove that all due diligence has been exercised to comply with the
information requirement, enforcement order or monetary penalty order in
question.
47. A person who has received an information requirement, enforcement order
or monetary penalty order under this Law may, within forty-five days of receipt
29

Right to seek judicial
review

The Data Protection Law, 2017
and upon notice to the Commissioner, seek judicial review of the information
requirement or the order in the Grand Court.

Commissioner to certify

48. (1) Where the person concerned has not sought judicial review upon the
expiry of the forty-five day period referred to in section 47, the Commissioner
may certify in writing to the court any failure to comply with an information
requirement, enforcement order or monetary penalty order made under sections
44, 45 or 55 and the court may consider such failure under the rules relating to
contempt of court.
(2) The Rules Committee referred to in section 19 of the
Grand Court Law (2015 Revision) may make rules providing for -

(2015 Revision)

(a)

the effect on proceedings referred to in subsection (1) of a person
obtaining leave to seek judicial proceedings out of the time
referred to in section 47; and
(b) any other matters relating to proceedings under this section.
Disclosure of
information

49. (1) Except as provided in this Law, no enactment or law prohibiting or
restricting the disclosure of information shall preclude a person from furnishing
the Commissioner with any information required for the discharge of the
Commissioner’s functions under this Law.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not be read so as to compel an individual to utter
anything that tends to incriminate that individual.

Confidentiality of
information

50. (1) A current or former Commissioner, current or former member of the
Commissioner’s staff, current or former agent of the Commissioner, or current or
former consultant to the Commissioner, shall not knowingly or wilfully disclose
any information which(a)

has been or was obtained by, or furnished to, the Commissioner
under or for the purposes of this Law or the
(2015 Revision)
Freedom of Information Law (2015 Revision);
(b) relates to an identified or identifiable person; and
(c) is not at the time of the disclosure, and has not previously been,
available to the public from other sources,
unless the disclosure is made with lawful authority.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) a disclosure of information is made
with lawful authority if -

30

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

the disclosure is made with the consent of the person to whom
the information relates;
(b) the information was provided for the purpose of it being made
available to the public, in whatever manner, under any provision
of this Law;
(c) the disclosure is made for the purposes of the discharge of (i) functions under this Law or the Freedom of Information
Law (2015 Revision); or
(ii) any European Union obligation of the United Kingdom that
has been extended to the Islands;
(d) the disclosure is made for the purposes of any proceedings,
whether criminal or civil and whether arising under, or by virtue
of, this Law or otherwise; or
(e) having regard to the rights and freedoms or legitimate interests of
any person, the disclosure is necessary in the public interest.
(3) A person who knowingly or recklessly discloses information in
contravention of subsection (1) commits an offence.
Entry and search of
premises

51. (1) In this Part “occupier”, in relation to premises, includes a person in charge of premises;
“premises” includes (a) any ship, aircraft, vessel or other vehicle; and
(b) any hovercraft or other floating or airborne contrivance,
registered in the Islands.
(2) If a judge is satisfied by information on oath supplied by the
Commissioner that there are reasonable grounds for believing (a)

that a data controller has contravened, is contravening or is likely
to contravene any of the data protection principles; or
(b) that an offence under this Law has been or is being committed,
and that there are reasonable grounds to believe that evidence of the
contravention or of the commission of the offence is to be found on any premises
specified in the information, the judge may grant a warrant to the Commissioner.
(3) A warrant granted under subsection (2) may authorize the
Commissioner or any of the Commissioner’s staff at any time (a)

to enter the premises and search them;

31

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(b) to inspect, examine, operate and test any equipment found there
which is used or intended to be used for the processing of
personal data; and
(c) to inspect, examine and seize any documents, equipment or other
thing found there which may be evidence of the contravention of
subsection (2).
Warrant not exercisable

52. (1) The powers of inspection and seizure conferred by a warrant shall not
be exercisable in respect of personal data that are exempt under section 18.
(2) The powers of inspection and seizure conferred by a warrant shall not
be exercisable in respect of information for which legal professional privilege is
claimed; in the event of such a claim, the relevant material shall be sealed, held
by a neutral party, and the party claiming privilege shall bring the matter before
the Grand Court no later than five days following such claim, at which time the
Grand Court shall determine the matter, and the costs of this procedure shall be in
accordance with an order of the Grand Court.

Offences in respect of
warrants

53. A person who (a)

obstructs a person in the execution of a warrant granted under
this Law;
(b) fails, without reasonable excuse, to give a person executing such
a warrant such assistance as may be reasonably required for the
execution of the warrant;
(c) makes a statement in response to a requirement under this Law
which the person knows to be false in a material respect; or
(d) recklessly makes a statement in response to such a requirement
which is false in a material respect,
commits an offence and is liable (i)

on summary conviction, to a fine of twenty thousand
dollars; or
(ii) on conviction on indictment, to a fine of one hundred
thousand dollars or a term of imprisonment of four years, or
to both.
Unlawful obtaining etc.
of personal data

54. (1) A person shall not, knowingly or recklessly, without the consent of the
data controller (a) obtain or disclose personal data; or
(b) procure the disclosure to another person of the personal data.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who shows that the
obtaining, disclosing or procuring 32

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(a)

was necessary for the purpose of preventing or detecting a crime;
or
(b) was required or authorized by or under any enactment, by any
law or by the order of the Grand Court.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is
liable, upon conviction, to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars.
(4) A person who sells personal data commits an offence if the person has
obtained the data in contravention of subsection (1) and is liable, upon
conviction, to a fine of one hundred thousand dollars.
(5) A person who offers to sell personal data commits an offence if (a)

the person has obtained the data in contravention of subsection
(1); or
(b) the person subsequently obtains the data in contravention of that
subsection.
(6) For the purposes of subsection (5), an advertisement indicating that
personal data are or may be for sale is an offer to sell the data.
55. (1) The Commissioner may serve a data controller with a monetary
penalty order if the Commissioner is satisfied on a balance of probabilities that (a)

there has been a serious contravention of this Law by the data
controller; and
(b) the contravention was of a kind likely to cause substantial
damage or substantial distress to the data subject.
(2) A monetary penalty order is an order requiring the data controller to
pay a monetary penalty of an amount determined by the Commissioner and
specified in the order.
(3) The amount of the monetary penalty determined by the Commissioner
shall not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
(4) The monetary penalty order shall be paid into the general revenues of
the Islands within the period specified in the order.
(5) The Commissioner, before serving a monetary penalty order, shall
serve the data controller with a notice of intent that the Commissioner proposes to
serve a monetary penalty order.

33

Power of the
Commissioner to impose
monetary penalty

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(6) A notice of intent shall state that the data controller may make written
representations in relation to the Commissioner’s proposal within a period of
twenty-one days and such other information as may be prescribed.
(7) The Commissioner may not serve a monetary penalty order until the
period specified in subsection (6) has expired.
Guidance about
monetary penalty orders

56. (1) The Commissioner shall prepare and issue guidance, after consultation
with Cabinet, on the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions under section 55.
(2) The guidance shall, in particular, deal with (a)

the circumstances in which the Commissioner would consider it
appropriate to issue a monetary penalty order; and
(b) how the Commissioner will determine the amount of the penalty.
General provisions
relating to offences

57. (1) A person who commits an offence under this Law is liable, except
where this Law otherwise provides (a) on summary conviction, to a fine of ten thousand dollars; or
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine of twenty thousand dollars.
(2) A fine ordered under this Law shall be in addition to any monetary
penalty imposed by the Commissioner under section 55.
(3) The Grand Court by or before which a person is convicted of (a) an offence under section 16 or 54; or
(b) an offence under section 46 relating to an enforcement order,
may order any document or other material used in connection with the processing
of personal data and appearing to the court to be connected with the commission
of the offence to be forfeited, destroyed or erased.
(4) The Grand Court shall not make an order under subsection (3) in
relation to any material if a person, (other than the offender), claiming to be the
owner of, or otherwise interested in, the material applies to be heard by the court,
unless an opportunity is given to the person to show cause why the order should
not be made.

Liability for offences

58. (1) Where an offence under this Law has been committed by a body
corporate and is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance
of, or to be attributable to, any neglect on the part of (a) any director, secretary or similar officer of the body corporate; or
(b) any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity,
34

The Data Protection Law, 2017
the director, secretary, similar officer of the body corporate or any person
purporting to act in any such capacity, as well as the body corporate, commit that
offence and are liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
(2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members,
subsection (1) applies, in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in
connection with the member’s functions of management, as if the member were a
director of the body corporate.

PART 7 - GENERAL
59. This Law binds the Crown.

Law binds Crown

60. (1) A notice required by this Law to be given to the Commissioner shall
not be regarded as given until it is in fact received by the Commissioner.

Service of orders, etc.

(2) A notice or other document which is required or authorized under this
Law to be given to the Commissioner may be given by electronic or other means
on the condition that the Commissioner is able to obtain or recreate the notice or
document in intelligible form.
(3) An order, notice, direction or other document required or authorized
by or under this Law to be given to or served on any person other than the
Commissioner may be given or served (a) by delivering it to the person;
(b) by leaving it at the person’s address;
(c) by sending it by registered post to the person at the person’s
address; or
(d) by sending it to the person by electronic or other means to the
person’s given facsimile number or electronic mail address or
such other given address by which the order, notice, direction or
document may be obtained or recreated in intelligible form.
(4) Without limiting the generality of subsection (3), any such order,
notice, direction or other document may be given to or served on a partnership,
company incorporated outside the Islands or unincorporated association by being
given to or served (a)

in any case, on a person who is, or purports, under whatever
description, to act as, its secretary, clerk or other similar officer;
(b) in the case of a partnership, on the person having the control or
management of the partnership business;
(c) in the case of a partnership or company incorporated outside the
Islands, on the local representative referred to in section 6(2); or
35

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(d) by being delivered to the registered or administrative office of a
person referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if the person is a
body corporate.
(5) If the person to or on whom an order, notice, direction or other
document referred to in subsection (3) is to be given or served has notified the
Commissioner of an address within the Islands as the one at which the person or
someone on the person’s behalf will accept documents of the same description as
that order, notice, direction or other document, that address shall also be treated
for the purposes of this section as the person’s address.
(6) If the name or the address of an owner, lessee or occupier of premises
on whom an order, notice, direction or other document referred to in subsection
(3) is to be served cannot, after reasonable enquiry, be ascertained it may be
served by (a)

addressing it to the person on whom it is to be served by the
description of “owner”, “lessee” or “occupier” of the premises;
(b) specifying the premises on it; and
(c) delivering it to a responsible person resident or appearing to be
resident on the premises or, if there is no person to whom it can
be delivered, by affixing it, or a copy of it, to a conspicuous part
of the premises.
(7) Upon the service of a notice or other document under this section, the
person carrying out the service shall, where required, provide an affidavit of
service in accordance with Order 65 Rule 8 of the Grand Court Rules, 1995 as
proof of service.
Regulations

61. (1) The Cabinet may make regulations prescribing all matters that are
required or permitted by this Law to be prescribed, or are necessary or convenient
to be prescribed for giving effect to the purposes of this Law.
(2) Regulations made under this Law may (a)

make different provisions in relation to different cases or
circumstances;
(b) apply in respect of particular persons or particular cases or
particular classes of persons or particular classes of cases, and
define a class by reference to any circumstances whatsoever;
(c) contain such transitional, consequential, incidental or
supplementary provisions as appear to the Cabinet to be
necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Law; or
(d) create an offence punishable by a fine of one hundred thousand
dollars.
36

The Data Protection Law, 2017
SCHEDULE 1
(Section 5(1) and (2))
THE DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES AND THEIR
INTERPRETATION
PART 1
The Data Protection Principles
First principle
1. Personal data shall be processed fairly. In addition, personal data may be
processed only if (a)

in every case, at least one of the conditions set out in paragraphs
1 to 6 of Schedule 2 is met; and

(b) in the case of sensitive personal data, at least one of the
conditions in paragraphs 1 to 10 of Schedule 3 is also met.
Second principle
2. Personal data shall be obtained only for one or more specified lawful
purposes, and shall not be further processed in any manner incompatible with that
purpose or those purposes.
Third principle
3. Personal data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the
purpose or purposes for which they are collected or processed.
Fourth principle
4.

Personal data shall be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date.

Fifth principle
5. Personal data processed for any purpose shall not be kept for longer than is
necessary for that purpose.
Sixth principle
6. Personal data shall be processed in accordance with the rights of data
subjects under this Law.
Seventh principle
7. Appropriate technical and organizational measures shall be taken against
unauthorized or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss
or destruction of, or damage to, personal data.
Eighth principle
37

The Data Protection Law, 2017
8. Personal data shall not be transferred to a country or territory unless that
country or territory ensures an adequate level of protection for the rights and
freedoms of data subjects in relation to the processing of personal data.
PART 2
Interpretation of Data Protection Principles
First principle: source
1. (1) In determining for the purposes of the first principle whether personal
data are processed fairly, regard is to be had to (a)

the method by which they are obtained, including in particular
whether any person from whom they are obtained is deceived or
misled as to the purpose or purposes for which they are to be
processed; and

(b) whether the information contained in the personal data has
previously been made public as a result of steps deliberately
taken by the data subject.
(2) Subject to paragraph 2, for the purposes of the first principle, personal
data are prima facie to be treated as obtained fairly if they consist of information
obtained from a person who is required to supply it by or under an enactment or
by a convention or other instrument imposing an international obligation on the
Islands.
First principle: specified information at relevant time
2. For the purposes of the first principle personal data shall not be treated as
processed fairly unless the data subject has, as soon as reasonably practicable,
been provided with, at a minimum (a)

the identity of the data controller; and

(b) the purpose for which the data are to be processed.
Seventh principle: processing contract to ensure reliability
3. If processing of personal data is carried out by a data processor on behalf of
a data controller, the data controller shall not to be regarded as complying with
the seventh principle unless the processing is carried out under a contract (a) that is made or evidenced in writing;
(b) under which the data processor is to act only on instructions from
the data controller; and

38

The Data Protection Law, 2017
(c)

that requires the data processor to comply with obligations
equivalent to those imposed on a data controller by the seventh
principle.

Eighth principle: what is adequate protection in foreign country
4. For the purposes of the eighth principle, an adequate level of protection is
one that is adequate in all the circumstances of the case, having regard, among
other things, to (a) the nature of the personal data;
(b) the country or territory of origin of the information contained in
the data;
(c) the country or territory of final destination of that information;
(d) the purposes for which and period during which the personal data
are intended to be processed;
(e) the law in force in the country or territory in question;
(f) the international obligations of that country or territory;
(g) any relevant codes of conduct or other rules that are enforceable
in that country or territory, whether generally or by arrangement
in particular cases; and
(h) any security measures taken in respect of the data in that country
or territory.
Exceptions to Eighth principle
5. The eighth principle does not apply to a transfer falling within Schedule 4,
except in such circumstances and to such extent as may be prescribed by
regulations.
Eighth principle: European Union finding decisive
6. (1) If in any proceedings under this Law a question arises as to whether
the requirement of the eighth principle as to an adequate level of protection is met
in relation to the transfer of any personal data to a country or territory outside the
Islands which is a member state of the European Union or with respect to which a
European Union finding has been made in relation to transfers of the kind in
question, that question shall be determined in accordance with that finding.
(2) In this paragraph “European Union finding” means a finding of the
European Commission, under the procedure provided for in Article 31(2) of
Directive 95/46/EC or such other provision or instrument as may for the time
being be in force on the protection of data subjects with regard to the processing
of personal data and on the free movement of such data, that a country or territory
outside the European Economic Area does, or does not, ensure an adequate level
of protection within the meaning of Article 25(2) of the Directive or such other
provision or instrument as may for the time being be in force for that purpose.
39

The Data Protection Law, 2017

SCHEDULE 2
(Section 5(3))
FIRST PRINCIPLE - CONDITIONS FOR PROCESSING OF PERSONAL
DATA
Consent
1.

The data subject has given consent to the processing.

Processing necessary for contract
2.

The processing is necessary for (a)

the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party;
or
(b) the taking of steps at the request of the data subject with a view
to entering into a contract.
Processing under legal obligation
3. The processing is necessary for compliance with any legal obligation to
which the data controller is subject, other than an obligation imposed by contract.
Processing to protect vital interests
4. The processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data
subject.
Processing necessary for exercise of public functions
5.

The processing is necessary for (a) the administration of justice;
(b) the exercise of any functions conferred on any person by or under
any enactment;
(c) the exercise of any functions of the Crown or any public
authority; or
(d) the exercise of any other functions of a public nature exercised in
the public interest by any person.

Processing for legitimate interests
6. The processing is necessary for the purposes of legitimate interests pursued
by the data controller or by the third party or parties to whom the data are
disclosed, except if the processing is unwarranted in any particular case by reason
of prejudice to the rights and freedoms or legitimate interests of the data subject.
Regulations about legitimate interests
7. The Cabinet may, by regulations, specify particular circumstances in which
the condition set out in paragraph 6 shall, or shall not, be taken to be satisfied.
40

The Data Protection Law, 2017

SCHEDULE 3
(Section 5(3))
FIRST PRINCIPLE - CONDITIONS FOR PROCESSING OF SENSITIVE
PERSONAL DATA
Consent
1.

The data subject has given consent to the processing of the personal data.

Employment
2. The processing is necessary for the purposes of exercising or performing a
right, or obligation, conferred or imposed by law on the data controller in
connection with the data subject’s employment.
Vital interests
3.

The processing is necessary (a)

in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or another
person, in a case where consent cannot be given by or on behalf
of the data subject, or the data controller cannot reasonably be
expected to obtain the consent of the data subject; or
(b) in order to protect the vital interests of another person, in a case
where consent by or on behalf of the data subject has been
unreasonably withheld.
Non-profit associations
4.

The processing (a)

is carried out in the course of its legitimate activities by a body,
or association, that is not established or conducted for profit, and
exists for political, philosophical, religious or trade union
purposes;
(b) is carried out with appropriate safeguards for the rights and
freedoms of data subjects;
(c) relates only to data subjects who are members of the body or
association or have regular contact with it in connection with its
purposes; and
(d) does not involve disclosure of the personal data to a third party
without the consent of the data subject.
Information made public by data subject
5. The information contained in the personal data has been made public as a
result of steps taken by the data subject.
41

The Data Protection Law, 2017
Legal proceedings, etc.
6.

The processing (a)

is necessary for the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal
proceedings;
(b) is necessary for the purpose of obtaining legal advice; or
(c) is otherwise necessary for the purposes of establishing,
exercising or defending legal rights.
Public functions
7.

The processing is necessary for (a) the administration of justice;
(b) the exercise of any functions conferred on any person by or under
an enactment; or
(c) the exercise of any functions of the Crown or any public
authority.

Medical purposes
8. (1) The processing is necessary for medical purposes and is undertaken
by(a) a health professional; or
(b) a person who, in the circumstances, owes a duty of
confidentiality equivalent to that which would arise if that person
were a health professional.
(2) In this paragraph, “medical purposes” includes the purposes of
preventative medicine, medical diagnosis, the provision of care and treatment and
the management of healthcare services.

Circumstances prescribed by regulations
9. The personal data are processed in such circumstances as may be prescribed
by regulations.
Regulations relating to paragraph 2 or 7
10. The Cabinet may by regulations (a)

exclude the application of paragraph 2 or 7 in such cases as may
be specified; or
(b) provide that, in such cases as may be specified, the conditions in
paragraph 2 or 7 shall not be regarded as satisfied unless such

42

The Data Protection Law, 2017
further conditions, as may be specified in the regulations, are also
satisfied.

SCHEDULE 4
(Section 5(3))
TRANSFERS TO WHICH EIGHTH PRINCIPLE DOES NOT APPLY
Consent
1.

The data subject has consented to the transfer.

Contract between data subject and data controller
2.

The transfer is necessary for (a)

the performance of a contract between the data subject and the
data controller; or
(b) the taking of steps at the request of the data subject with a view
to the data subject’s entering into a contract with the data
controller.
Third-party contract in interest of data subject
3.

The transfer is necessary for (a)

the conclusion of a contract between the data controller and a
person other than the data subject, being a contract that is entered
into at the request of the data subject, or is in the interests of the
data subject; or
(b) the performance of such a contract.
Public interest
4.

The transfer is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest.

Legal proceedings, etc.
5.

The transfer (a)

is necessary for the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal
proceedings;
(b) is necessary for the purpose of obtaining legal advice; or
(c) is otherwise necessary for the purposes of establishing,
exercising or defending legal rights.
Vital interests
6. The transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data
subject.
43

The Data Protection Law, 2017
Public register
7. The transfer is part of the personal data on a public register and any
conditions subject to which the register is open to inspection are complied with
by a person to whom the data are or may be disclosed after the transfer.
Transfer made on terms approved by Commissioner
8. The transfer is made on terms of a kind approved by the Commissioner as
ensuring adequate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
Commissioner has authorized transfer
9. The transfer has been authorized by the Commissioner as being made in
such a manner as to ensure adequate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of
data subjects.
International cooperation between intelligence agencies or regulatory
agencies
10. The transfer is required under international cooperation arrangements
between intelligence agencies or between regulatory agencies to combat
organized crime, terrorism or drug trafficking or to carry out other cooperative
functions.
Regulations concerning the public interest
11. The Cabinet may, by regulations, specify in broad, non-exhaustive terms (a)

circumstances in which a transfer shall be taken for the purposes
paragraph 4 to be necessary for reasons of substantial public
interest; and

(b) circumstances in which a transfer not required by or under an
enactment shall not be taken, for the purposes of paragraph 4, to
be necessary for reasons of substantial public interest.
SCHEDULE 5
(Section 5 (5))
CONDITIONS OF CONSENT
1. The data controller shall bear the burden of proving the data subject’s
consent to the processing of the data subject’s personal data for the specified
purposes.
2. If the data subject’s consent is to be given in the form of a written
declaration which also concerns another matter, the requirement to give consent
shall be presented in an appearance that is distinguishable from the other matter.
44

The Data Protection Law, 2017
3. The data subject shall have the right to withdraw consent at any time. The
withdrawal of consent shall not affect the lawfulness of processing based on
consent before its withdrawal.
4.

Where there is a significant imbalance between the position of the data

subject and the data controller, consent shall not provide a legal basis for the
processing.

Passed by the Legislative Assembly the 27th day of March, 2017.
J. O’Connor-Connolly
Speaker.

Zena Merren-Chin
Clerk of the Legislative Assembly.

45

