May 31, 2010
--------------------Monday

>>>Welcome visitor, you're not logged in. Login

Home

Subscribe Now!

User Management

About Us

Chinese

lawinfochina.com > Laws & Regulations > Text
Bookmark

Download

Search:

Print

简体
繁体

Font Size:

"Fabao" Window

Cybersecurity Law of the People's Republic of China [Effective]
中华人民共和国⽹络安全法 [现行有效]
【法宝引证码】CLI.1.283838(EN)
Issuing authority： Standing Committee of the National People's Congress

Document Number： Order No. 53 of the President

Date issued： 11-07-2016

Effective date: 06-01-2017

Level of Authority: Laws

Area of Law:Public Security,Post and Telecommunications

ㅤ
Order of the President of the People's Republic of China

中华人民共和国主席令

(No. 53)

（第五十三号）

The Cybersecurity Law of the People's Republic of China, as adopted at the 24th Session of

《中华人民共和国⽹络安全法》已由中华人民共和国第十二届全国

the Standing Committee of the Twelfth National People's Congress of the People's Republic of

人民代表大会常务委员会第二十四次会议于2016年11月7日通

China on November 7, 2016, is hereby issued and shall come into force on June 1, 2017.

过，现予公布，自2017年6月1日起施行。

President of the People's Republic of China: Xi Jinping

中华人民共和国主席 习近平

November 7, 2016

2016年11月7日

Cybersecurity Law of the People's Republic of China

中华人民共和国⽹络安全法

(Adopted at the 24th Session of the Standing Committee of the Twelfth National People's

（2016年11月7日第十二届全国人民代表大会常务委员会第二

Congress of the People's Republic of China on November 7, 2016)

十四次会议通过）

Table of Contents

目录

Chapter I General Provisions

第一章ㅤ总ㅤㅤ则

Chapter II Cybersecurity Support and Promotion

第二章ㅤ⽹络安全支持与促进

Chapter III Network Operation Security

第三章ㅤ⽹络运行安全

Section 1 General Provisions

第一节ㅤ一般规定

Section 2 Operation Security of Critical Information Infrastructure

第二节ㅤ关键信息基础设施的运行安全

Chapter IV Network Information Security

第四章ㅤ⽹络信息安全

Chapter V Monitoring, Early Warning and Emergency Response

第五章ㅤ监测预警与应急处置

Chapter VI Legal Liability

第六章ㅤ法律责任

Chapter VII Supplementary Provisions

第七章ㅤ附ㅤㅤ则

Chapter I General Provisions

第一章ㅤ总ㅤㅤ则

Article 1 This Law is developed for the purposes of guaranteeing cybersecurity, safeguarding

ㅤㅤ第一条ㅤ为了保障⽹络安全，维护⽹络空间主权和国家安

cyberspace sovereignty, national security and public interest, protecting the lawful rights and

全、社会公共利益，保护公民、法人和其他组织的合法权益，促进

interests of citizens, legal persons and other organizations, and promoting the sound

经济社会信息化健康发展，制定本法。

development of economic and social informatization.
Article 2 This Law shall apply to the construction, operation, maintenance and use of the

ㅤㅤ第二条ㅤ在中华人民共和国境内建设、运营、维护和使用⽹

network as well as the supervision and administration of cybersecurity within the territory of

络，以及⽹络安全的监督管理，适用本法。

the People's Republic of China.
Article 3 The state shall lay equal stress on cybersecurity and information-based

ㅤㅤ第三条ㅤ国家坚持⽹络安全与信息化发展并重，遵循积极利

development, follow the guidelines of positive use, scientific development, legal management

用、科学发展、依法管理、确保安全的方针，推进⽹络基础设施建

and security guarantee, promote the construction of network infrastructure and

设和互联互通，鼓励⽹络技术创新和应用，支持培养⽹络安全人

interconnection, encourage the innovation and application of network technologies, support

才，建立健全⽹络安全保障体系，提高⽹络安全保护能力。

the cultivation of cybersecurity talents, establish and improve the cybersecurity guarantee
system, and enhance the capability to protect cybersecurity.
Article 4 The state shall develop and continuously improve cybersecurity strategies, specify

ㅤㅤ第四条ㅤ国家制定并不断完善⽹络安全战略，明确保障⽹络

the basic requirements and major objectives for guaranteeing cybersecurity, and propose

安全的基本要求和主要目标，提出重点领域的⽹络安全政策、工作

cybersecurity policies, work tasks and measures in key fields.

任务和措施。

Article 5 The state shall take measures to monitor, defend against and deal with

ㅤㅤ第五条ㅤ国家采取措施，监测、防御、处置来源于中华人民共

cybersecurity risks and threats from both inside and outside the territory of the People's

和国境内外的⽹络安全⻛险和威胁，保护关键信息基础设施免

Republic of China, protect critical information infrastructure from attack, intrusion,

受攻击、侵入、干扰和破坏，依法惩治⽹络违法犯罪活动，维护

interference and damage, punish illegal criminal activities on the network in accordance with

⽹络空间安全和秩序。

the law, and maintain cyberspace security and order.
Article 6 The state shall advocate honest, faithful, healthy and civilized network conduct,

ㅤㅤ第六条ㅤ国家倡导诚实守信、健康文明的⽹络行为，推动传

advance the spreading of core socialist values, and take measures to enhance the awareness

播社会主义核心价值观，采取措施提高全社会的⽹络安全意识和

and level of cybersecurity of the entire society, so as to form a favorable environment for

水平，形成全社会共同参与促进⽹络安全的良好环境。

promoting cybersecurity with the participation of the entire society.
Article 7 The state shall actively carry out international exchange and cooperation in terms

ㅤㅤ第七条ㅤ国家积极开展⽹络空间治理、⽹络技术研发和标

of cyberspace governance, research and development of network technologies, formulation of

准制定、打击⽹络违法犯罪等方面的国际交流与合作，推动构建

standards thereof, and crackdown on illegal crimes committed on the network and other

和平、安全、开放、合作的⽹络空间，建立多边、民主、透明的⽹

aspects, promote the construction of a peaceful, safe, open and cooperative cyberspace, and

络治理体系。

establish a multilateral, democratic and transparent system for cyber governance.
Article 8 The national cyberspace administration shall be responsible for the overall planning

ㅤㅤ第八条ㅤ国家⽹信部⻔负责统筹协调⽹络安全工作和相关

and coordination of cybersecurity work and relevant supervision and administration. The

监督管理工作。国务院电信主管部⻔、公安部⻔和其他有关机关

competent telecommunications department of the State Council, public security departments

依照本法和有关法律、行政法规的规定，在各自职责范围内负责

and other relevant authorities shall be responsible for cybersecurity protection, supervision

⽹络安全保护和监督管理工作。

and administration within the scope of their respective functions in accordance with the
provisions of this Law and other relevant laws and administrative regulations.
The cybersecurity protection, supervision and administration functions of relevant

县级以上地方人民政府有关部⻔的⽹络安全保护和监督管理职

departments of local people's governments at or above the county level shall be determined

责，按照国家有关规定确定。

in accordance with relevant provisions of the state.
Article 9 Network operators shall, when conducting business operations and providing

ㅤㅤ第九条ㅤ⽹络运营者开展经营和服务活动，必须遵守法律、

services, abide by laws and administrative regulations, respect social morality, observe

行政法规，尊重社会公德，遵守商业道德，诚实信用，履行⽹络

business ethics, have good faith, perform the cybersecurity protection obligation, accept

安全保护义务，接受政府和社会的监督，承担社会责任。

supervision by the government and the public, and undertake social responsibilities.
Article 10 For the construction and operation of the network or the provision of services

ㅤㅤ第十条ㅤ建设、运营⽹络或者通过⽹络提供服务，应当依照

through the network, technical measures and other necessary measures shall be taken in

法律、行政法规的规定和国家标准的强制性要求，采取技术措施和

accordance with the provisions of laws and administrative regulations and the compulsory

其他必要措施，保障⽹络安全、稳定运行，有效应对⽹络安全事

requirements of national standards to ensure the safe and stable operation of the network,

件，防范⽹络违法犯罪活动，维护⽹络数据的完整性、保密性和

effectively respond to cybersecurity incidents, prevent illegal criminal activities committed on

可用性。

the network, and maintain the integrity, confidentiality and availability of network data.
Article 11 Network-related industry organizations shall, in accordance with their charters,

ㅤㅤ第十一条ㅤ⽹络相关行业组织按照章程，加强行业自律，制

intensify industry self-discipline, formulate codes of conduct on cybersecurity, direct their

定⽹络安全行为规范，指导会员加强⽹络安全保护，提高⽹络

members to strengthen cybersecurity protection, raise the level of cybersecurity protection,

安全保护水平，促进行业健康发展。

and promote the sound development of the industry.
Article 12 The state shall protect the rights of citizens, legal persons and other organizations

ㅤㅤ第十二条ㅤ国家保护公民、法人和其他组织依法使用⽹络的

to use the network in accordance with the law, promote the popularity of network access,

权利，促进⽹络接入普及，提升⽹络服务水平，为社会提供安

provide better network services, provide the public with safe and convenient network

全、便利的⽹络服务，保障⽹络信息依法有序自由流动。

services, and guarantee the orderly and free flow of network information in accordance with
the law.
Any individual or organization using the network shall comply with the Constitution and laws,

任何个人和组织使用⽹络应当遵守宪法法律，遵守公共秩序，尊

follow public order and respect social morality, shall not endanger cybersecurity, and shall not

重社会公德，不得危害⽹络安全，不得利用⽹络从事危害国家安

use the network to conduct any activity that endangers national security, honor and interest,

全、荣誉和利益，煽动颠覆国家政权、推翻社会主义制度，煽动

incites to subvert the state power or overthrow the socialist system, incites to split the

分裂国家、破坏国家统一，宣扬恐怖主义、极端主义，宣扬民族

country or undermine national unity, advocates terrorism or extremism, propagates ethnic

仇恨、民族歧视，传播暴力、淫秽色情信息，编造、传播虚假信息

hatred or discrimination, spreads violent or pornographic information, fabricates or

扰乱经济秩序和社会秩序，以及侵害他人名誉、隐私、知识产权

disseminates false information to disrupt the economic and social order, or infringes upon the

和其他合法权益等活动。

reputation, privacy, intellectual property rights or other lawful rights and interests of any
other person.
Article 13 The state shall support the research and development of network products and

ㅤㅤ第十三条ㅤ国家支持研究开发有利于未成年人健康成⻓的⽹

services that are conducive to the healthy growth of minors, legally punish the activities that

络产品和服务，依法惩治利用⽹络从事危害未成年人身心健康的

damage the physical and mental health of minors by using the network, and provide a safe

活动，为未成年人提供安全、健康的⽹络环境。

and healthy network environment for minors.
Article 14 Any individual or organization shall have the right to report the conduct that

ㅤㅤ第十四条ㅤ任何个人和组织有权对危害⽹络安全的行为向⽹

endangers cybersecurity to the cyberspace administration, telecommunications department,

信、电信、公安等部⻔举报。收到举报的部⻔应当及时依法作出

public security authority, and other departments. The department that receives the report

处理；不属于本部⻔职责的，应当及时移送有权处理的部⻔。

shall handle such a report in a timely manner in accordance with the law, or transfer the
report to the competent department in a timely manner if it falls outside its responsibility.
The relevant department shall keep confidential the information on the informant, and protect

有关部⻔应当对举报人的相关信息予以保密，保护举报人的合法

the informant's lawful rights and interests.

权益。

Chapter II Cybersecurity Support and Promotion

第二章ㅤ⽹络安全支持与促进

Article 15 The state shall establish and improve the system of cybersecurity standards. The

ㅤㅤ第十五条ㅤ国家建立和完善⽹络安全标准体系。国务院标准

standardization administrative department of the State Council and other relevant

化行政主管部⻔和国务院其他有关部⻔根据各自的职责，组织制

departments of the State Council shall, according to their respective functions, organize the

定并适时修订有关⽹络安全管理以及⽹络产品、服务和运行安全

formulation of and revise at appropriate time national and industry standards relating to

的国家标准、行业标准。

cybersecurity administration and the security of network products, services and operations.
The state shall support enterprises, research institutions, institutions of higher learning, and

国家支持企业、研究机构、高等学校、⽹络相关行业组织参与⽹

network-related industry organizations in participating in the formulation of national and

络安全国家标准、行业标准的制定。

industry standards on cybersecurity.
Article 16 The State Council and people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions

ㅤㅤ第十六条ㅤ国务院和省、自治区、直辖市人民政府应当统筹

and municipalities directly under the Central Government shall make overall planning,

规划，加大投入，扶持重点⽹络安全技术产业和项目，支持⽹络

increase input, support key cybersecurity technology industries and projects, support the

安全技术的研究开发和应用，推⼴安全可信的⽹络产品和服务，

research, development and application of cybersecurity technologies, popularize safe and

保护⽹络技术知识产权，支持企业、研究机构和高等学校等参与

reliable network products and services, protect the intellectual property rights of network

国家⽹络安全技术创新项目。

technologies, and support enterprises, research institutions, and institutions of higher
learning, among others, in participating in national innovation projects on cybersecurity
technologies.
Article 17 The state shall boost the construction of a socialized service system for

ㅤㅤ第十七条ㅤ国家推进⽹络安全社会化服务体系建设，鼓励有

cybersecurity, and encourage relevant enterprises and institutions to provide such security

关企业、机构开展⽹络安全认证、检测和⻛险评估等安全服务。

services as cybersecurity authentication, detection and risk assessment.
Article 18 The state shall encourage the development of technologies for protecting and

ㅤㅤ第十八条ㅤ国家鼓励开发⽹络数据安全保护和利用技术，促

using network data, promote the availability of public data resources, and promote

进公共数据资源开放，推动技术创新和经济社会发展。

technological innovation and social and economic development.
The state shall support the innovation of cybersecurity management methods and the

国家支持创新⽹络安全管理方式，运用⽹络新技术，提升⽹络安

application of new network technologies to enhance cybersecurity protection.

全保护水平。

Article 19 People's governments at all levels and their relevant departments shall organize

ㅤㅤ第十九条ㅤ各级人民政府及其有关部⻔应当组织开展经常性

regular cybersecurity publicity and education, and direct and urge relevant entities to conduct

的⽹络安全宣传教育，并指导、督促有关单位做好⽹络安全宣传

cybersecurity publicity and education in an effective manner.

教育工作。

Mass media shall offer pertinent cybersecurity publicity and education to the public.

大众传播媒介应当有针对性地面向社会进行⽹络安全宣传教育。

Article 20 The state shall provide support to enterprises, institutions of higher learning,

ㅤㅤ第二十条ㅤ国家支持企业和高等学校、职业学校等教育培训

vocational schools and other education training institutions to conduct cybersecurity-related

机构开展⽹络安全相关教育与培训，采取多种方式培养⽹络安

education and training, take multiple means to cultivate cybersecurity talents, and promote

全人才，促进⽹络安全人才交流。

the exchange of cybersecurity talents.
Chapter III Network Operation Security

第三章ㅤ⽹络运行安全

Section 1 General Provisions

第一节ㅤ一般规定

Article 21 The state shall implement the rules for graded protection of cybersecurity.

ㅤㅤ第二十一条ㅤ国家实行⽹络安全等级保护制度。⽹络运营者

Network operators shall, according to the requirements of the rules for graded protection of

应当按照⽹络安全等级保护制度的要求，履行下列安全保护义

cybersecurity, fulfill the following security protection obligations, so as to ensure that the

务，保障⽹络免受干扰、破坏或者未经授权的访问，防止⽹络数

network is free from interference, damage or unauthorized access, and prevent network data

据泄露或者被窃取、篡改：

from being divulged, stolen or falsified.
(1) Developing internal security management rules and operating procedures, determining

（一）制定内部安全管理制度和操作规程，确定⽹络安全负责

the persons in charge of cybersecurity, and carrying out the responsibility for cybersecurity

人，落实⽹络安全保护责任；

protection.
(2) Taking technical measures to prevent computer viruses, network attack, network intrusion

（二）采取防范计算机病毒和⽹络攻击、⽹络侵入等危害⽹络安

and other acts endangering cybersecurity.

全行为的技术措施；

(3) Taking technical measures to monitor and record the status of network operation and

（三）采取监测、记录⽹络运行状态、⽹络安全事件的技术措

cybersecurity incidents, and preserving relevant weblogs for not less than six months as

施，并按照规定留存相关的⽹络日志不少于六个月；

required.
(4) Taking measures such as data categorization, and back-up and encryption of important

（四）采取数据分类、重要数据备份和加密等措施；

data.
(5) Performing other obligations as prescribed by laws and administrative regulations.

（五）法律、行政法规规定的其他义务。

Article 22 Network products and services shall comply with the compulsory requirements of

ㅤㅤ第二十二条ㅤ⽹络产品、服务应当符合相关国家标准的强制

relevant national standards. Providers of network products and services shall not install

性要求。⽹络产品、服务的提供者不得设置恶意程序；发现其⽹

malware. When a provider discovers any risk such as security defect and vulnerability of its

络产品、服务存在安全缺陷、漏洞等⻛险时，应当立即采取补救

network products or services, it shall immediately take remedial measures, inform users in a

措施，按照规定及时告知用户并向有关主管部⻔报告。

timely manner, and report it to the competent department in accordance with relevant
provisions.
Providers of network products and services shall continuously provide security maintenance

⽹络产品、服务的提供者应当为其产品、服务持续提供安全维

for their products and services, and shall not terminate the provision of security maintenance

护；在规定或者当事人约定的期限内，不得终止提供安全维护。

within the stipulated period or the period agreed upon by the parties.
Where network products and services have the function of collecting users' information, their

⽹络产品、服务具有收集用户信息功能的，其提供者应当向用户

providers shall explicitly notify their users and obtain their consent. If any user's personal

明示并取得同意；涉及用户个人信息的，还应当遵守本法和有关

information is involved, the provider shall also comply with this Law and the provisions of

法律、行政法规关于个人信息保护的规定。

relevant laws and administrative regulations on the protection of personal information.
Article 23 Key network equipment and specialized cybersecurity products shall, in

ㅤㅤ第二十三条ㅤ⽹络关键设备和⽹络安全专用产品应当按照

accordance with the compulsory requirements of relevant national standards, pass the

相关国家标准的强制性要求，由具备资格的机构安全认证合格或

security certification conducted by qualified institutions or meet the requirements of security

者安全检测符合要求后，方可销售或者提供。国家⽹信部⻔会同

detection before being sold or provided. The national cyberspace administration shall, in

国务院有关部⻔制定、公布⽹络关键设备和⽹络安全专用产品

conjunction with relevant departments of the State Council, develop and release the

目录，并推动安全认证和安全检测结果互认，避免重复认证、检

catalogue of key network equipment and specialized cybersecurity products, and promote the

测。

mutual recognition of security certification and security detection results to avoid repeated
certification and detection.
Article 24 Where network operators provide network access and domain registration services

ㅤㅤ第二十四条ㅤ⽹络运营者为用户办理⽹络接入、域名注册服

for users, handle network access formalities for fixed-line or mobile phone users, or provide

务，办理固定电话、移动电话等入⽹手续，或者为用户提供信息

users with information release services, instant messaging services and other services, they

发布、即时通讯等服务，在与用户签订协议或者确认提供服务

shall require users to provide true identity information when signing agreements with users

时，应当要求用户提供真实身份信息。用户不提供真实身份信息

or confirming the provision of services. If any user fails to provide his or her true identify

的，⽹络运营者不得为其提供相关服务。

information, the network operator shall not provide him or her with relevant services.
The state shall implement the strategy of credible identity in cyberspace, support the

国家实施⽹络可信身份战略，支持研究开发安全、方便的电子身

research and development of safe and convenient technologies for electronic identity

份认证技术，推动不同电子身份认证之间的互认。

authentication, and promote mutual recognition among different electronic identity
authentication technologies.
Article 25 Network operators shall make emergency response plans for cybersecurity

ㅤㅤ第二十五条ㅤ⽹络运营者应当制定⽹络安全事件应急预案，

incidents, and deal with system bugs, computer viruses, network attack, network intrusion

及时处置系统漏洞、计算机病毒、⽹络攻击、⽹络侵入等安全⻛

and other security risks in a timely manner. When any incident endangering cybersecurity

险；在发生危害⽹络安全的事件时，立即启动应急预案，采取相

occurs, the relevant operator shall immediately initiate the emergency response plan, take

应的补救措施，并按照规定向有关主管部⻔报告。

corresponding remedial measures, and report it to the competent department in accordance
with relevant provisions.
Article 26 Such activities as cybersecurity authentication, detection and risk assessment

ㅤㅤ第二十六条ㅤ开展⽹络安全认证、检测、⻛险评估等活动，

shall be conducted, and cybersecurity information on system bugs, computer viruses,

向社会发布系统漏洞、计算机病毒、⽹络攻击、⽹络侵入等⽹络

network attack, and network intrusion, among others, shall be released to the public in

安全信息，应当遵守国家有关规定。

accordance with relevant provisions of the state.
Article 27 No individual or organization may conduct any activity endangering cybersecurity,

ㅤㅤ第二十七条ㅤ任何个人和组织不得从事非法侵入他人⽹络、干

such as illegally intruding into any other person's network, interfering with the normal

扰他人⽹络正常功能、窃取⽹络数据等危害⽹络安全的活动；不

functions of any other person's network, and stealing network data, or provide programs or

得提供专⻔用于从事侵入⽹络、干扰⽹络正常功能及防护措施、

tools specifically used for conducting activities endangering cybersecurity, such as network

窃取⽹络数据等危害⽹络安全活动的程序、工具；明知他人从事

intrusion, interference with normal functions and protective measures of the network, and

危害⽹络安全的活动的，不得为其提供技术支持、⼴告推⼴、支付

stealing of network data. Whoever knows that any other person conducts any activity

结算等帮助。

endangering cybersecurity shall not provide technical support, advertising promotion,
payment and settlement services or any other assistance to such a person.
．．．．．．

．．．．．．

Dear visitor,you are attempting to view a subscription-based section of lawinfochina.com. If

您好：您现在要进入的是北大法律英文⽹会员专区，如您是我们

you are already a subscriber, please login to enjoy access to our databases . If you are not a

英文用户可直接 登录，进入会员专区查询您所需要的信息；如

subscriber, please subscribe . You can purchase a single article through Online Pay to

您还不是我们 的英文用户，请注册并交纳相应费用成为我们的

immediately view and download this document. Should you have any questions, please

英文会员 ；您也可通过⽹上支付进行单篇购买，支付成功后即

contact us at:

可立即查看本篇法规。如有问题请来电咨询；

+86 (10) 8268-9699 or +86 (10) 8266-8266 (ext. 153)

Tel: +86 (10) 82689699, +86 (10) 82668266 ext.

Mobile: +86 133-1157-0712

153

Fax: +86 (10) 8266-8268

Mobile: +86 13311570712

database@chinalawinfo.com

Fax: +86 (10) 82668268
E-mail: database@chinalawinfo.com

【法宝引证码】CLI.1.283838(EN)

北大法宝www.lawinfochina.com
Translations are by lawinfochina.com, and we
retain exclusive copyright over content found on

Message: Please kindly comment on the present translation.

our website except for content we publish as
authorized by respective copyright owners or
content that is publicly available from government
sources.

Due to differences in language, legal systems, and
culture, English translations of Chinese law are for
reference purposes only. Please use the official
Chinese-language versions as the final authority.
Confirmation Code:

Click image to reset code!
Submit

lawinfochina.com and its staff will not be directly
or indirectly liable for use of materials found on
this website.

We welcome your comments and suggestions,
which assist us in continuing to improve the
quality of our materials.
Home | Products and Services | FAQ | Disclaimer | Chinese | Site Map
©2012 Chinalawinfo Co., Ltd.

database@chinalawinfo.com Tel: +86 (10) 8268-9699 京ICP证010230-8

