Convention 108 +
Convention for the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing
of personal data

www.coe.int/dataprotection

Convention 108 +
Convention for the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing
of personal data

Council of Europe

French edition:
Convention 108+
Convention pour la protection
des personnes à l’égard du traitement
des données à caractère personnel
All requests concerning the
reproduction or translation of all
or part of this document should
be addressed to the Directorate
of Communication (F-67075
Strasbourg Cedex or publishing@
coe.int). All other correspondence
concerning this document should
be addressed to the Directorate
General Human Rights and Rule
of Law (DataProtection@coe.int).
Photo: Shutterstock
Cover design and layout:
Documents and Publications
Production Department
(SPDP), Council of Europe
© © Council of Europe, June 2018
Printed at the Council of Europe

Contents
DECISION OF THE COMMITTEE OF MINISTERS
MODERNISED CONVENTION FOR THE PROTECTION
OF INDIVIDUALS WITH REGARD TO THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
EXPLANATORY REPORT

5
7
15

► Page 3

Decision of the Committee
of Ministers
128th session of the Committee of
Ministers, Elsinore, 18 May 2018

Decisions
The Committee of Ministers

1.
took note of Parliamentary Assembly Opinion
No. 296 (2017) on the draft Protocol amending the
Convention for the Protection of Individuals with
regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data (ETS
No. 108);
2.
adopted the Protocol amending the Convention
for the Protection of Individuals with regard to
Automatic Processing of Personal Data (ETS No. 108),
as it appears in document CM(2018)2-final, and, as
an instrument related to the Protocol, endorsed
the Explanatory Report, as it appears in document
CM(2018)2-addfinal;

3.
stressed the importance of a speedy accession to
the Protocol by the maximum number of the current
States Parties to Convention No. 108 in order to facilitate the formation of an all-encompassing legal regime
of data protection under the modernised Convention,
as well as to ensure the fullest possible representation
of States within the Convention Committee;
4.
decided to open the Protocol for signature
on 25 June 2018 during the 3rd part-session of the
Parliamentary Assembly, in Strasbourg;

5.
urged member States and other Parties to the
Convention to take without delay the necessary measures to allow the entry into force of the Protocol
within three years from its opening for signature and
to initiate immediately, but in any case no later than
one year after the date on which the Protocol has been
opened for signature, the process under their national
law leading to ratification, approval or acceptance of
this Protocol;
6.
underlined that, following the entry into force
of the amended Convention in accordance with the
provisions of Article 37(2) of the Protocol, only those
States that have ratified, approved or accepted the
Protocol shall be bound by the obligations arising
from the amended Convention;
7.
instructed its Deputies to examine bi-annually,
and for the first time one year after the date of opening
for signature of the Protocol, the overall progress made
towards ratification on the basis of the information to
be provided to the Secretary General by each of the
member States and other Parties to the Convention at
the latest one month ahead of such an examination.

Convention 108+ ► Page 5

Modernised Convention for
the Protection of Individuals
with Regard to the Processing
of Personal Data*
Preamble
The member States of the Council of Europe, and the
other signatories hereto,
Considering that the aim of the Council of Europe is
to achieve greater unity between its members, based
in particular on respect for the rule of law, as well as
human rights and fundamental freedoms;
Considering that it is necessary to secure the human
dignity and protection of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of every individual and, given
the diversification, intensification and globalisation
of data processing and personal data flows, personal
autonomy based on a person’s right to control of his
or her personal data and the processing of such data;
Recalling that the right to protection of personal data
is to be considered in respect of its role in society and
that it has to be reconciled with other human rights
and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of
expression;

Considering that this Convention permits account
to be taken, in the implementation of the rules laid
down therein, of the principle of the right of access
to official documents;
Recognising that it is necessary to promote at the
global level the fundamental values of respect for privacy and protection of personal data, thereby contributing to the free flow of information between people;

Recognising the interest of a reinforcement of international co-operation between the Parties to the
Convention,
Have agreed as follows:

*

Adopted by the Committee of Ministers at its 128th Session
of the Committee of Ministers (Elsinore, 18 May 2018).

Chapter I – General provisions
Article 1 – Object and purpose
The purpose of this Convention is to protect every
individual, whatever his or her nationality or residence,
with regard to the processing of their personal data,
thereby contributing to respect for his or her human
rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular
the right to privacy.

Article 2 – Definitions
For the purposes of this Convention:

a.
“personal data” means any information relating to
an identified or identifiable individual (“data subject”);
b.
“data processing” means any operation or set of
operations performed on personal data, such as the
collection, storage, preservation, alteration, retrieval,
disclosure, making available, erasure, or destruction
of, or the carrying out of logical and/or arithmetical
operations on such data;

c.
Where automated processing is not used, “data
processing” means an operation or set of operations
performed upon personal data within a structured
set of such data which are accessible or retrievable
according to specific criteria;
d.
“controller” means the natural or legal person,
public authority, service, agency or any other body
which, alone or jointly with others, has decision-making power with respect to data processing;

e.
“recipient” means a natural or legal person, public
authority, service, agency or any other body to whom
data are disclosed or made available;
f.
“processor” means a natural or legal person, public authority, service, agency or any other body which
processes personal data on behalf of the controller.

Convention 108+ ► Page 7

Article 3 – Scope
1.
Each Party undertakes to apply this Convention
to data processing subject to its jurisdiction in the
public and private sectors, thereby securing every
individual’s right to protection of his or her personal
data.

2.
This Convention shall not apply to data processing carried out by an individual in the course of purely
personal or household activities.

c.
adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation
to the purposes for which they are processed;

d.

e.
preserved in a form which permits identification
of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the
purposes for which those data are processed.

Article 6 – Special categories of data
1.

Chapter II – Basic principles for the
protection of personal data
Article 4 – Duties of the Parties
1.
Each Party shall take the necessary measures in its
law to give effect to the provisions of this Convention
and secure their effective application.
2.
These measures shall be taken by each Party and
shall have come into force by the time of ratification
or of accession to this Convention.

3.

Each Party undertakes:

a.
to allow the Convention Committee provided
for in Chapter VI to evaluate the effectiveness of the
measures it has taken in its law to give effect to the
provisions of this Convention; and
b.

to contribute actively to this evaluation process.

Article 5 – Legitimacy of data processing
and quality of data
1.
Data processing shall be proportionate in relation to the legitimate purpose pursued and reflect at
all stages of the processing a fair balance between all
interests concerned, whether public or private, and
the rights and freedoms at stake.
2.
Each Party shall provide that data processing can
be carried out on the basis of the free, specific, informed
and unambiguous consent of the data subject or of
some other legitimate basis laid down by law.

3.
Personal data undergoing processing shall be
processed lawfully.
4.

Personal data undergoing processing shall be:

a.

processed fairly and in a transparent manner;

b.
collected for explicit, specified and legitimate
purposes and not processed in a way incompatible
with those purposes; further processing for archiving
purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical
research purposes or statistical purposes is, subject
to appropriate safeguards, compatible with those
purposes;

Page 8 ► Convention 108+

accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date;

The processing of:
– genetic data;
– personal data relating to offences, criminal
proceedings and convictions, and related
security measures;
– biometric data uniquely identifying a person;
– personal data for the information they reveal
relating to racial or ethnic origin, political
opinions, trade-union membership, religious
or other beliefs, health or sexual life,

shall only be allowed where appropriate safeguards
are enshrined in law, complementing those of this
Convention.

2.
Such safeguards shall guard against the risks
that the processing of sensitive data may present for
the interests, rights and fundamental freedoms of the
data subject, notably a risk of discrimination.

Article 7 – Data security
1.
Each Party shall provide that the controller, and,
where applicable the processor, takes appropriate
security measures against risks such as accidental or
unauthorised access to, destruction, loss, use, modification or disclosure of personal data.

2.
Each Party shall provide that the controller notifies, without delay, at least the competent supervisory authority within the meaning of Article 15 of
this Convention, of those data breaches which may
seriously interfere with the rights and fundamental
freedoms of data subjects.

Article 8 – Transparency of processing
1.
Each Party shall provide that the controller
informs the data subjects of:

a.
his or her identity and habitual residence or
establishment;
b.
the legal basis and the purposes of the intended
processing;

c.

the categories of personal data processed;

d.
the recipients or categories of recipients of the
personal data, if any; and

e.
the means of exercising the rights set out in
Article 9,

as well as any necessary additional information in
order to ensure fair and transparent processing of
the personal data.

2.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the data subject already has the relevant information.

3.
Where the personal data are not collected from
the data subjects, the controller shall not be required
to provide such information where the processing
is expressly prescribed by law or this proves to be
impossible or involves disproportionate efforts.

Article 9 – Rights of the data subject
1.

Every individual shall have a right:

a.
not to be subject to a decision significantly affecting him or her based solely on an automated processing of data without having his or her views taken into
consideration;

b.
to obtain, on request, at reasonable intervals
and without excessive delay or expense, confirmation
of the processing of personal data relating to him
or her, the communication in an intelligible form of
the data processed, all available information on their
origin, on the preservation period as well as any other
information that the controller is required to provide
in order to ensure the transparency of processing in
accordance with Article 8, paragraph 1;
c.
to obtain, on request, knowledge of the reasoning underlying data processing where the results of
such processing are applied to him or her;

d.
to object at any time, on grounds relating to his
or her situation, to the processing of personal data
concerning him or her unless the controller demonstrates legitimate grounds for the processing which
override his or her interests or rights and fundamental
freedoms;
e.
to obtain, on request, free of charge and without excessive delay, rectification or erasure, as the
case may be, of such data if these are being, or have
been, processed contrary to the provisions of this
Convention;
f.
to have a remedy under Article 12 where his or
her rights under this Convention have been violated;

g.
to benefit, whatever his or her nationality or residence, from the assistance of a supervisory authority
within the meaning of Article 15, in exercising his or
her rights under this Convention.
2.
Paragraph 1.a shall not apply if the decision is
authorised by a law to which the controller is subject and which also lays down suitable measures to
safeguard the data subject’s rights, freedoms and
legitimate interests.

Article 10 – Additional obligations
1.
Each Party shall provide that controllers and,
where applicable, processors, take all appropriate measures to comply with the obligations of this Convention
and be able to demonstrate, subject to the domestic
legislation adopted in accordance with Article 11,
paragraph 3, in particular to the competent supervisory authority provided for in Article 15, that the data
processing under their control is in compliance with
the provisions of this Convention.
2.
Each Party shall provide that controllers and,
where applicable, processors, examine the likely
impact of intended data processing on the rights and
fundamental freedoms of data subjects prior to the
commencement of such processing, and shall design
the data processing in such a manner as to prevent
or minimise the risk of interference with those rights
and fundamental freedoms.

3.
Each Party shall provide that controllers, and,
where applicable, processors, implement technical and
organisational measures which take into account the
implications of the right to the protection of personal
data at all stages of the data processing.
4.
Each Party may, having regard to the risks arising
for the interests, rights and fundamental freedoms of
the data subjects, adapt the application of the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 in the law giving effect
to the provisions of this Convention, according to the
nature and volume of the data, the nature, scope and
purpose of the processing and, where appropriate,
the size of the controller or processor.

Article 11 – Exceptions and restrictions
1.
No exception to the provisions set out in this
Chapter shall be allowed except to the provisions of
Article 5 paragraph 4, Article 7 paragraph 2, Article 8
paragraph 1 and Article 9, when such an exception
is provided for by law, respects the essence of the
fundamental rights and freedoms and constitutes a
necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic
society for:
a.
the protection of national security, defense,
public safety, important economic and financial interests of the State, the impartiality and independence
of the judiciary or the prevention, investigation and
prosecution of criminal offences and the execution of
criminal penalties, and other essential objectives of
general public interest;

b.
the protection of the data subject or the rights
and fundamental freedoms of others, notably freedom
of expression.
2.
Restrictions on the exercise of the provisions
specified in Articles 8 and 9 may be provided for by
law with respect to data processing for archiving

Convention 108+ ► Page 9

purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical
research purposes or statistical purposes when there
is no recognisable risk of infringement of the rights
and fundamental freedoms of data subjects.
3.
In addition to the exceptions allowed for in paragraph 1 of this article, with reference to processing
activities for national security and defense purposes,
each Party may provide, by law and only to the extent
that it constitutes a necessary and proportionate
measure in a democratic society to fulfill such aim,
exceptions to Article 4 paragraph 3, Article 14 paragraphs 5 and 6 and Article 15, paragraph 2, litterae a,
b, c and d.

This is without prejudice to the requirement that
processing activities for national security and defense
purposes are subject to independent and effective
review and supervision under the domestic legislation
of the respective Party.

Article 12 – Sanctions and remedies
Each Party undertakes to establish appropriate judicial
and non-judicial sanctions and remedies for violations
of the provisions of this Convention.

Article 13 – Extended protection
None of the provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted as limiting or otherwise affecting the possibility
for a Party to grant data subjects a wider measure of
protection than that stipulated in this Convention.

Chapter III – Transborder flows of
personal data
Article 14 – Transborder flows of
personal data
1.
A Party shall not, for the sole purpose of the
protection of personal data, prohibit or subject to
special authorisation the transfer of such data to a
recipient who is subject to the jurisdiction of another
Party to the Convention. Such a Party may, however,
do so if there is a real and serious risk that the transfer
to another Party, or from that other Party to a nonParty, would lead to circumventing the provisions
of the Convention. A Party may also do so, if bound
by harmonised rules of protection shared by States
belonging to a regional international organisation.

2. When the recipient is subject to the jurisdiction
of a State or international organisation which is not
Party to this Convention, the transfer of personal data
may only take place where an appropriate level of
protection based on the provisions of this Convention
is secured.
3.
by:

An appropriate level of protection can be secured

Page 10 ► Convention 108+

a.
the law of that State or international organisation, including the applicable international treaties or
agreements; or
b.
ad hoc or approved standardised safeguards
provided by legally-binding and enforceable instruments adopted and implemented by the persons
involved in the transfer and further processing.

4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous
paragraphs, each Party may provide that the transfer
of personal data may take place if:

a.
the data subject has given explicit, specific and
free consent, after being informed of risks arising in
the absence of appropriate safeguards; or
b.
the specific interests of the data subject require
it in the particular case; or
c.
prevailing legitimate interests, in particular
important public interests, are provided for by law
and such transfer constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society; or

d.
it constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society for freedom of expression.

5.
Each Party shall provide that the competent
supervisory authority within the meaning of Article
15 of this Convention is provided with all relevant
information concerning the transfers of data referred
to in paragraph 3.b and, upon request, paragraphs 4.b
and 4.c.
6.
Each Party shall also provide that the supervisory
authority is entitled to request that the person who
transfers data demonstrates the effectiveness of the
safeguards or the existence of prevailing legitimate
interests and that the supervisory authority may, in
order to protect the rights and fundamental freedoms
of data subjects, prohibit such transfers, suspend them
or subject them to condition.

Chapter IV – Supervisory authorities
Article 15 – Supervisory authorities
1.
Each Party shall provide for one or more authorities to be responsible for ensuring compliance with
the provisions of this Convention.
2.

To this end, such authorities:

a.
shall have powers of investigation and
intervention;

b.
shall perform the functions relating to transfers
of data provided for under Article 14, notably the
approval of standardised safeguards;
c.
shall have powers to issue decisions with respect
to violations of the provisions of this Convention and
may, in particular, impose administrative sanctions;

d.
shall have the power to engage in legal proceedings or to bring to the attention of the competent
judicial authorities violations of the provisions of this
Convention;
e.

shall promote:
i. public awareness of their functions and
powers as well as their activities;
ii. public awareness of the rights of data subjects and the exercise of such rights;
iii. awareness of controllers and processors of
their responsibilities under this Convention;

specific attention shall be given to the data protection
rights of children and other vulnerable individuals.

3.
The competent supervisory authorities shall be
consulted on proposals for any legislative or administrative measures which provide for the processing
of personal data.

4.
Each competent supervisory authority shall deal
with requests and complaints lodged by data subjects
concerning their data protection rights and shall keep
data subjects informed of progress.
5.
The supervisory authorities shall act with complete independence and impartiality in performing
their duties and exercising their powers and in doing
so shall neither seek nor accept instructions.

6.
Each Party shall ensure that the supervisory
authorities are provided with the resources necessary
for the effective performance of their functions and
exercise of their powers.
7.
Each supervisory authority shall prepare and
publish a periodical report outlining its activities.
8.
Members and staff of the supervisory authorities
shall be bound by obligations of confidentiality with
regard to confidential information to which they have
access, or have had access to, in the performance of
their duties and exercise of their powers.
9.
Decisions of the supervisory authorities may be
subject to appeal through the courts.

10. The supervisory authorities shall not be competent with respect to processing carried out by bodies
when acting in their judicial capacity.

Chapter V – Co-operation and mutual
assistance
Article 16 – Designation of supervisory
authorities
1.
The Parties agree to co-operate and render each
other mutual assistance in order to implement this
Convention.

2.

For that purpose:

a.
each Party shall designate one or more supervisory authorities within the meaning of Article 15
of this Convention, the name and address of each of
which it shall communicate to the Secretary General
of the Council of Europe;

b.
each Party which has designated more than one
supervisory authority shall specify the competence of
each authority in its communication referred to in the
previous littera.

Article 17 – Forms of co-operation
1.
The supervisory authorities shall co-operate with
one another to the extent necessary for the performance of their duties and exercise of their powers, in
particular by:
a.
providing mutual assistance by exchanging relevant and useful information and co-operating with
each other under the condition that, as regards the
protection of personal data, all the rules and safeguards
of this Convention are complied with;

b.
co-ordinating their investigations or interventions, or conducting joint actions;
c.
providing information and documentation on
their law and administrative practice relating to data
protection.
2.
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall
not include personal data undergoing processing
unless such data are essential for co-operation, or
where the data subject concerned has given explicit,
specific, free and informed consent to its provision.

3.
In order to organise their co-operation and to
perform the duties set out in the preceding paragraphs,
the supervisory authorities of the Parties shall form a
network.

Article 18 – Assistance to data subjects
1.
Each Party shall assist any data subject, whatever
his or her nationality or residence, to exercise his or
her rights under Article 9 of this Convention.

2.
Where a data subject resides on the territory of
another Party, he or she shall be given the option of
submitting the request through the intermediary of
the supervisory authority designated by that Party.
3.
The request for assistance shall contain all the
necessary particulars, relating inter alia to:

a.
the name, address and any other relevant particulars identifying the data subject making the request;
b.
the processing to which the request pertains, or
its controller;

c.

the purpose of the request.

Convention 108+ ► Page 11

Article 19 – Safeguards
1.
A supervisory authority which has received information from another supervisory authority, either
accompanying a request or in reply to its own request,
shall not use that information for purposes other than
those specified in the request.

2.
In no case may a supervisory authority be allowed
to make a request on behalf of a data subject of its
own accord and without the express approval of the
data subject concerned.

3.
The Convention Committee may, by a decision
taken by a majority of two-thirds of the representatives
of the Parties, invite an observer to be represented at
its meetings.
4.
Any Party which is not a member of the Council
of Europe shall contribute to the funding of the activities of the Convention Committee according to the
modalities established by the Committee of Ministers
in agreement with that Party.

Article 23 – Functions of the committee

Article 20 – Refusal of requests

The Convention Committee:

A supervisory authority to which a request is addressed
under Article 17 of this Convention may not refuse to
comply with it unless:

a.
may make recommendations with a view to facilitating or improving the application of the Convention;

a.

b.
may make proposals for amendment of this
Convention in accordance with Article 25;

the request is not compatible with its powers;

b.
the request does not comply with the provisions
of this Convention;

c.
compliance with the request would be incompatible with the sovereignty, national security or public
order of the Party by which it was designated, or with
the rights and fundamental freedoms of individuals
under the jurisdiction of that Party.

Article 21 – Costs and procedures
1.
Co-operation and mutual assistance which the
Parties render each other under Article 17 and assistance they render to data subjects under Articles 9
and 18 shall not give rise to the payment of any costs
or fees other than those incurred for experts and
interpreters. The latter costs or fees shall be borne by
the Party making the request.
2.
The data subject may not be charged costs or
fees in connection with the steps taken on his or her
behalf in the territory of another Party other than
those lawfully payable by residents of that Party.
3.
Other details concerning the co-operation and
assistance, relating in particular to the forms and
procedures and the languages to be used, shall be
established directly between the Parties concerned.

Chapter VI – Convention Committee
Article 22 – Composition of the
committee
1.
A Convention Committee shall be set up after
the entry into force of this Convention.
2.
Each Party shall appoint a representative to the
committee and a deputy representative. Any member
State of the Council of Europe which is not a Party to
the Convention shall have the right to be represented
on the committee by an observer.

Page 12 ► Convention 108+

c.
shall formulate its opinion on any proposal for
amendment of this Convention which is referred to
it in accordance with Article 25, paragraph 3;

d.
may express an opinion on any question concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention;
e.
shall prepare, before any new accession to the
Convention, an opinion for the Committee of Ministers
relating to the level of personal data protection of the
candidate for accession and, where necessary, recommend measures to take to reach compliance with the
provisions of this Convention;

f.
may, at the request of a State or an international
organisation, evaluate whether the level of personal
data protection the former provides is in compliance
with the provisions of this Convention and, where
necessary, recommend measures to be taken to reach
such compliance;
g.
may develop or approve models of standardised
safeguards referred to in Article 14;

h.
shall review the implementation of this
Convention by the Parties and recommend measures
to be taken in the case where a Party is not in compliance with this Convention;
i.
shall facilitate, where necessary, the friendly
settlement of all difficulties related to the application
of this Convention.

Article 24 – Procedure
1.
The Convention Committee shall be convened
by the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. Its
first meeting shall be held within twelve months of
the entry into force of this Convention. It shall subsequently meet at least once a year, and in any case
when one-third of the representatives of the Parties
request its convocation.

2.
After each of its meetings, the Convention
Committee shall submit to the Committee of Ministers
of the Council of Europe a report on its work and on
the functioning of this Convention.

the date on which the Party to this Convention which
has notified the objection has deposited its instrument
of acceptance with the Secretary General of the Council
of Europe.

3.
The voting arrangements in the Convention
Committee are laid down in the elements for the Rules
of Procedure appended to Protocol CETS No. [223].

Chapter VIII – Final clauses

4.
The Convention Committee shall draw up the
other elements of its Rules of Procedure and establish,
in particular, the procedures for evaluation and review
referred to in Article 4, paragraph 3, and Article 23,
litterae e, f and h on the basis of objective criteria.

Chapter VII – Amendments
Article 25 – Amendments
1.
Amendments to this Convention may be proposed by a Party, the Committee of Ministers of the
Council of Europe or the Convention Committee.
2.
Any proposal for amendment shall be communicated by the Secretary General of the Council
of Europe to the Parties to this Convention, to the
other member States of the Council of Europe, to the
European Union and to every non-member State or
international organisation which has been invited
to accede to this Convention in accordance with the
provisions of Article 28.
3.
Moreover, any amendment proposed by a Party
or the Committee of Ministers shall be communicated
to the Convention Committee, which shall submit to
the Committee of Ministers its opinion on that proposed amendment.

4.
The Committee of Ministers shall consider the
proposed amendment and any opinion submitted
by the Convention Committee and may approve the
amendment.

5.
The text of any amendment approved by the
Committee of Ministers in accordance with paragraph
4 of this article shall be forwarded to the Parties for
acceptance.
6.
Any amendment approved in accordance with
paragraph 4 of this article shall come into force on
the thirtieth day after all Parties have informed the
Secretary General of their acceptance thereof.
7.
Moreover, the Committee of Ministers may, after
consulting the Convention Committee, decide unanimously that a particular amendment shall enter into
force at the expiration of a period of three years from
the date on which it has been opened to acceptance,
unless a Party notifies the Secretary General of the
Council of Europe of an objection to its entry into force.
If such an objection is notified, the amendment shall
enter into force on the first day of the month following

Article 26 – Entry into force
1.
This Convention shall be open for signature
by the member States of the Council of Europe and
by the European Union. It is subject to ratification,
acceptance or approval. Instruments of ratification,
acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the
Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
2.
This Convention shall enter into force on the first
day of the month following the expiration of a period
of three months after the date on which five member
States of the Council of Europe have expressed their
consent to be bound by the Convention in accordance
with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.

3.
In respect of any Party which subsequently
expresses its consent to be bound by it, the Convention
shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after
the date of deposit of the instrument of ratification,
acceptance or approval.

Article 27 – Accession by non-member
States or international organisations
1.
After the entry into force of this Convention, the
Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe may,
after consulting the Parties to this Convention and
obtaining their unanimous agreement, and in light of
the opinion prepared by the Convention Committee
in accordance with Article 23.e, invite any State not a
member of the Council of Europe or an international
organisation to accede to this Convention by a decision
taken by the majority provided for in Article 20.d of the
Statute of the Council of Europe and by the unanimous
vote of the representatives of the Contracting States
entitled to sit on the Committee of Ministers.

2.
In respect of any State or international organisation acceding to this Convention according to paragraph 1 above, the Convention shall enter into force
on the first day of the month following the expiration
of a period of three months after the date of deposit
of the instrument of accession with the Secretary
General of the Council of Europe.

Article 28 – Territorial clause
1.
Any State, the European Union or other international organisation may, at the time of signature or
when depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, specify the territory or
territories to which this Convention shall apply.

Convention 108+ ► Page 13

2.
Any State, the European Union or other international organisation may, at any later date, by a declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council
of Europe, extend the application of this Convention
to any other territory specified in the declaration. In
respect of such territory the Convention shall enter
into force on the first day of the month following the
expiration of a period of three months after the date
of receipt of such declaration by the Secretary General.
3.
Any declaration made under the two preceding
paragraphs may, in respect of any territory specified
in such declaration, be withdrawn by a notification
addressed to the Secretary General. The withdrawal
shall become effective on the first day of the month
following the expiration of a period of six months
after the date of receipt of such notification by the
Secretary General.

Article 29 – Reservations
No reservation may be made in respect of the provisions of this Convention.

Article 30 – Denunciation
1.
Any Party may at any time denounce this
Convention by means of a notification addressed to
the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.

2.
Such denunciation shall become effective on
the first day of the month following the expiration of
a period of six months after the date of receipt of the
notification by the Secretary General.

Article 31 – Notifications
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall
notify the member States of the Council and any Party
to this Convention of:
a.

any signature;

b.
the deposit of any instrument of ratification,
acceptance, approval or accession;
c.
any date of entry into force of this Convention
in accordance with Articles 26, 27 and 28;

d.
any other act, notification or communication
relating to this Convention.

Appendix to the Protocol:
Elements for the Rules of Procedure of
the Convention Committee
1.
Each Party has a right to vote and shall have one
vote.

2.
A two-thirds majority of representatives of the
Parties shall constitute a quorum for the meetings of
the Convention Committee. In case the amending

Page 14 ► Convention 108+

Protocol to the Convention enters into force in accordance with its Article 37 (2) before its entry into force in
respect of all Contracting States to the Convention, the
quorum for the meetings of the Convention Committee
shall be no less than 34 Parties to the Protocol.

3.
The decisions under Article 23 shall be taken by
a four-fifths majority. The decisions pursuant to Article
23 littera h shall be taken by a four-fifths majority,
including a majority of the votes of States Parties not
members of a regional integration organisation that
is a Party to the Convention.
4.
Where the Convention Committee takes decisions pursuant to Article 23 littera h, the Party concerned by the review shall not vote. Whenever such a
decision concerns a matter falling within the competence of a regional integration organisation, neither
the organisation nor its member States shall vote.

5.
Decisions concerning procedural issues shall be
taken by a simple majority.
6.
Regional integration organisations, in matters
within their competence, may exercise their right to
vote in the Convention Committee, with a number of
votes equal to the number of their member States that
are Parties to the Convention. Such an organisation
shall not exercise its right to vote if any of its member
States exercises its right.

7.
In case of vote, all Parties must be informed of
the subject and time for the vote, as well as whether
the vote will be exercised by the Parties individually
or by a regional integration organisation on behalf of
its member States.

8.
The Convention Committee may further amend
its rules of procedure by a two-thirds majority, except
for the voting arrangements which may only be
amended by unanimous vote of the Parties and to
which Article 25 of the Convention applies.

Explanatory Report
I.

Introduction

1.
In the 35 years that have elapsed since the
Convention for the Protection of Individuals with
regard to Automated Processing of Personal Data, also
known as Convention 108 (hereafter also referred to
as “the Convention”) was opened for signature, the
Convention has served as the foundation for international data protection law in over 40 European
countries. It has also influenced policy and legislation
far beyond Europe’s shores. With new challenges to
human rights and fundamental freedoms, notably to
the right to private life, arising every day, it appeared
clear that the Convention should be modernised in
order to better address emerging privacy challenges
resulting from the increasing use of new information
and communication technologies (IT), the globalisation of processing operations and the ever greater
flows of personal data, and, at the same time, to
strengthen the Convention’s evaluation and followup mechanism.

2.
A broad consensus on the following aspects of
the modernisation process emerged: the general and
technologically neutral nature of the Convention’s
provisions must be maintained; the Convention’s
coherence and compatibility with other legal frameworks must be preserved; and the Convention’s
open character, which gives it a unique potential as
a universal standard, must be reaffirmed. The text
of the Convention is of a general nature and can be
supplemented with more detailed soft-law sectoral
texts in the form notably of Committee of Ministers’
recommendations elaborated with the participation
of interested stakeholders.
3.
The modernisation work was carried out in the
broader context of various parallel reforms of international data protection instruments and taking due

account of the 1980 (revised in 2013) Guidelines on the
Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal
Data of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD), the 1990 United Nations
Guidelines for the Regulation of Computerized Personal
Data Files, the European Union’s (EU) framework1
since 1995, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
Privacy framework (2004) and the 2009 ”International
Standards on the Protection of Privacy with regard to
the processing of Personal Data”.2 With regard to the
EU data protection reform package in particular, the
works ran in parallel and utmost care was taken to
ensure consistency between both legal frameworks.
The EU data protection framework gives substance and
amplifies the principles of Convention 108 and takes
into account accession to Convention 108, notably
with regard to international transfers.3
4.
The Consultative Committee set up by Article
18 of the Convention prepared draft modernisation
proposals which were adopted at its 29th Plenary meeting (27-30 November 2012) and submitted to the
Committee of Ministers. The Committee of Ministers
subsequently entrusted the ad hoc Committee on
data protection (CAHDATA) with the task of finalising
the modernisation proposals. This was completed on
the occasion of the 3rd meeting of the CAHDATA (1-3
December 2014). Further to the finalisation of the EU
data protection framework, another CAHDATA was
established with a view to examine outstanding issues.
1.

2.

3.

General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (“GDPR”)
and Data Protection Directive for Police and Criminal Justice
Authorities (EU) 2016/680 (“Police Directive”).
Welcomed by the 31st International Conference of Data
Protection and Privacy Commissioners, held in Madrid 4-6
November 2009.
See in particular Recital 105 of the GDPR.

Convention 108+ ► Page 15

The last CAHDATA meeting (15-16 June 2016) finalised
its proposals and transmitted them to the Committee
of Ministers for consideration and adoption.
5.
The text of this explanatory report is intended to
guide and assist the application of the provisions of the
Convention and provides an indication as to how the
drafters envisaged the operation of the Convention.
6.
The Committee of Ministers has endorsed the
explanatory report. In this respect, the explanatory
report forms part of the context in which the meaning of certain terms used in the Convention is to be
ascertained (note: ref. Article 31, paragraphs 1 and 2
of the United Nations Vienna Convention on the Law
of Treaties).

The Protocol was adopted by the Committee of
Ministers on 18 May 2018. The appendix to the Protocol
forms an integral part of the Protocol and has the same
legal value as the other provisions of the Protocol.
This Protocol was opened for signature in Strasbourg,
[on 25 June 2018].

II.

Commentaries

7.
The purpose of this Protocol is to modernise
the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection
of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of
Personal Data (ETS No.108) and its Additional Protocol
regarding supervisory authorities and transborder
flows (ETS No. 181), and to strengthen their application. From its entry into force, the Additional Protocol
shall be considered an integral part of the Convention
as amended.
8.
The explanatory reports to Convention 108 and
to its additional protocol remain relevant in so far
as they provide historical context and describe the
evolution of both instruments, and they can be read
in conjunction with the present document for those
purposes.

Preamble
9.
The preamble reaffirms the commitment of the
signatory States to human rights and fundamental
freedoms.

10. A major objective of the Convention is to put
individuals in a position to know about, to understand
and to control the processing of their personal data
by others. Accordingly, the preamble expressly refers
to the right to personal autonomy and the right to
control one’s personal data, which stems in particular
from the right to privacy, as well as to the dignity of
individuals. Human dignity requires that safeguards be
put in place when processing personal data, in order
for individuals not to be treated as mere objects.

Page 16 ► Convention 108+

11. Taking into account the role of the right to
protection of personal data in society, the preamble
underlines the principle that the interests, rights and
fundamental freedoms of individuals have, where
necessary, to be reconciled with each other. It is in
order to maintain a careful balance between the different interests, rights and fundamental freedoms
that the Convention lays down certain conditions
and restrictions with regard to the processing of
information and the protection of personal data. The
right to data protection is for instance to be considered alongside the right to ‘freedom of expression’
as laid down in Article 10 of the European Convention
on Human Rights (ETS No. 5), which includes the
freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart
information. Furthermore, the Convention confirms
that the exercise of the right to data protection, which
is not absolute, should notably not be used as a
general means to prevent public access to official
documents.4
12. Convention 108, through the principles it lays
down and the values it enshrines, protects the individual while providing a framework for international
data flows. This is important as global information
flows play an increasingly significant role in modern
society, enabling the exercise of fundamental rights
and freedoms while triggering innovation and fostering social and economic progress, while also playing a
vital role in ensuring public safety. The flow of personal
data in an information and communication society
must respect the fundamental rights and freedoms
of individuals. Furthermore, the development and
use of innovative technologies should also respect
those rights. This will help to build trust in innovation and new technologies and further enable their
development.

13. As international co-operation between supervisory authorities is a key element for effective protection of individuals, the Convention aims to reinforce
such co-operation, notably by requiring Parties to
render mutual assistance, and providing the appropriate legal basis for a framework of co-operation
and exchange of information for investigations and
enforcement.

Chapter I – General provisions
Article 1 – Object and purpose
14. The first article describes the Convention’s object
and purpose. This article focuses on the subject of
protection: individuals are to be protected when their
4.

See the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official
Documents (CETS No. 205).

personal data is processed.5 More recently, data protection has been included as a fundamental right in
Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
EU as well as in the constitutions of several Parties to
the Convention.
15. The guarantees set out in the Convention are
extended to every individual regardless of nationality or residence. No discrimination between citizens
and third country nationals in the application of these
guarantees is allowed.6 Clauses restricting data protection to a State’s own nationals or legally resident
foreign nationals would be incompatible with the
Convention.

Article 2 – Definitions
16. The definitions used in this Convention are meant
to ensure the uniform application of terms to express
certain fundamental concepts in national legislation.

Litt. a. – “personal data”

17. “Identifiable individual” means a person who
can be directly or indirectly identified. An individual is
not considered “identifiable” if his or her identification
would require unreasonable time, effort or resources.
Such is the case, for example, when identifying a data
subject would require excessively complex, long and
costly operations. The issue of what constitutes “unreasonable time, efforts or resources” should be assessed
on a case-by-case basis. For example, consideration
could be given to the purpose of the processing and
taking into account objective criteria such as the cost,
the benefits of such an identification, the type of
controller, the technology used, etc. Furthermore,
technological and other developments may change
what constitutes “unreasonable time, effort or other
resources”.

18. The notion of “identifiable” refers not only to the
individual’s civil or legal identity as such, but also to
what may allow to “individualise” or single out (and
thus allow to treat differently) one person from others.
This “individualisation” could be done, for instance, by
referring to him or her specifically, or to a device or
a combination of devices (computer, mobile phone,
camera, gaming devices, etc.) on the basis of an identification number, a pseudonym, biometric or genetic
data, location data, an IP address, or other identifier.
The use of a pseudonym or of any digital identifier/
digital identity does not lead to anonymisation of
5.

6.

“the protection of personal data is of fundamental importance to a person’s enjoyment of his or her right to respect
for private and family life as guaranteed by Article 8” - ECtHR
MS v. Sweden, (Application No. 20837/92),1997, paragraph
41.
See Council of Europe Commissioner on Human Rights, The
rule of law on the Internet and in the wider digital world,
Issue Paper, CommDH/IssuePaper(2014)1, 8 December 2014,
p. 48, point 3.3 ’Everyone’ without discrimination.

the data as the data subject can still be identifiable
or individualised. Pseudonymous data is thus to be
considered as personal data and is covered by the
provisions of the Convention. The quality of the pseudonymisation techniques applied should be duly taken
into account when assessing the appropriateness of
safeguards implemented to mitigate the risks to data
subjects.
19. Data is to be considered as anonymous only as
long as it is impossible to re-identify the data subject
or if such re-identification would require unreasonable
time, effort or resources, taking into consideration the
available technology at the time of the processing
and technological developments. Data that appears
to be anonymous because it is not accompanied by
any obvious identifying element may, nevertheless
in particular cases (not requiring unreasonable time,
effort or resources), permit the identification of an
individual. This is the case, for example, where it is
possible for the controller or any person to identify
the individual through the combination of different
types of data, such as physical, physiological, genetic,
economic, or social data (combination of data on the
age, sex, occupation, geolocation, family status, etc.).
Where this is the case, the data may not be considered
anonymous and is covered by the provisions of the
Convention.

20. When data is made anonymous, appropriate
means should be put in place to avoid re-identification
of data subjects, in particular, all technical means
should be implemented in order to guarantee that
the individual is not, or is no longer, identifiable. They
should be regularly re-evaluated in light of the fast
pace of technological development.
Litt. b. and c. – “data processing”
21. “Data processing” starts from the collection of
personal data and covers all operations performed
on personal data, whether partially or totally automated. Where automated processing is not used, data
processing means an operation or set of operations
performed upon personal data within a structured
set of such data which are accessible or retrievable
according to specific criteria, allowing the controller
or any other person to search, combine or correlate
the data related to a specific data subject.
Litt. d. –“controller”
22. “Controller” refers to the person or body having
decision-making power concerning the purposes
and means of the processing, whether this power
derives from a legal designation or factual circumstances that are to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In some cases, there may be multiple controllers or
co-controllers (jointly responsible for a processing
and possibly responsible for different aspects of that
processing). When assessing whether the person or

Convention 108+ ► Page 17

body is a controller, special account should be taken of
whether that person or body determines the reasons
justifying the processing, in other terms its purposes
and the means used for it. Further relevant factors for
this assessment include whether the person or body
has control over the processing methods, the choice
of data to be processed and who is allowed to access
it. Those who are not directly subject to the controller
and carry out the processing on the controller’s behalf,
and solely according to the controller’s instructions, are
to be considered processors. The controller remains
responsible for the processing also where a processor
is processing the data on his or her behalf.
Litt. e. – “recipient”
23. “Recipient” is an individual or an entity who
receives personal data or to whom personal data is
made available. Depending on the circumstances, the
recipient may be a controller or a processor. For example, an enterprise can send certain data of employees
to a government department that will process it as a
controller for tax purposes. It may send it to a company
offering storage services and acting as a processor. The
recipient can be a public authority or an entity that has
been granted the right to exercise a public function
but where the data received by the authority or entity
is processed in the framework of a particular inquiry
in accordance with the applicable law, that public
authority or entity shall not be regarded as a recipient. Requests for disclosure from public authorities
should always be in writing, reasoned and occasional
and should not concern the entirety of a filing system
or lead to the interconnection of filing systems. The
processing of personal data by those public authorities
should comply with the applicable data protection
rules according to the purposes of the processing.

Litt. f. – “processor”
24. “Processor” is any natural or legal person (other
than an employee of the data controller) who processes data on behalf of the controller and according to
the controller’s instructions. The instructions given by
the controller establish the limit of what the processor
is allowed to do with the personal data.

Article 3 – Scope
25. According to paragraph 1, each Party should
apply the Convention to all processing, whether within
the public or private sector, subject to its jurisdiction.

26. Making the scope of the protection dependent
on the notion of “jurisdiction” of the Parties, is justified by the objective of better standing the test of
time and accommodating continual technological
developments.
27. Paragraph 2 excludes processing carried out for
purely personal or household activities from the scope
of the Convention. This exclusion aims at avoiding

Page 18 ► Convention 108+

the imposition of unreasonable obligations on data
processing carried out by individuals in their private
sphere for activities relating to the exercise of their
private life. Personal or household activities are activities which are closely and objectively linked to the
private life of an individual and which do not significantly impinge upon the personal sphere of others.
These activities have no professional or commercial
aspects and relate exclusively to personal or household
activities such as storing family or private pictures on
a computer, creating a list of the contact details of
friends and family members, correspondence, etc. The
sharing of data within the private sphere encompasses
notably the sharing between a family, a restricted
circle of friends or a circle which is limited in its size
and based on a personal relationship or a particular
relation of trust.
28. Whether activities are “purely personal or household activities” will depend on the circumstances. For
example, when personal data is made available to a
large number of persons or to persons obviously external to the private sphere, such as a public website on
the internet, the exemption will not apply. Likewise,
the operation of a camera system, as a result of which
a video recording of people is stored on a continuous
recording device such as a hard disk drive, installed
by an individual in his or her family home for the
purposes of protecting the property, health and life
of the home owners, but which covers, even partially,
a public space and is accordingly directed outwards
from the private setting of the person processing the
data in that manner, cannot be regarded as an activity
which is a purely “personal or household” activity.7
29. The Convention nonetheless applies to data
processing carried out by providers of the means for
processing personal data for such personal or household activities.
30. While the Convention concerns data processing
relating to individuals, the Parties may extend the protection in their domestic law to data relating to legal
persons in order to protect their legitimate interests.
The Convention applies to living individuals: it is not
meant to apply to personal data relating to deceased
persons. However, this does not prevent Parties from
extending the protection to deceased persons.

Chapter II – Basic principles of data
protection
Article 4 – Duties of the Parties
31. As this article indicates, the Convention obliges
Parties to incorporate its provisions into their law and
secure their effective application in practice; how this
7.

See Court of Justice of the EU, František Ryneš v. Úřad, 11
December 2014, C212/13k.

is done depends on the applicable legal system and
the approach taken regarding the incorporation of
international treaties.

32. The term “law of the Parties” denotes, according
to the legal and constitutional system of the particular
country, all enforceable rules, whether of statute law
or case law. It must meet the qualitative requirements
of accessibility and previsibility (or “foreseeability”).
This implies that the law should be sufficiently clear
to allow individuals and other entities to regulate
their own behaviour in light of the expected legal
consequences of their actions, and that the persons
who are likely to be affected by this law should have
access to it. It encompasses rules that place obligations or confer rights on persons (whether natural or
legal) or which govern the organisation, powers and
responsibilities of public authorities or lay down procedure. In particular, it includes States’ constitutions
and all written acts of legislative authorities (laws in
the formal sense) as well as all regulatory measures
(decrees, regulations, orders and administrative directives) based on such laws. It also covers international
conventions applicable in domestic law, including
EU law. Furthermore, it includes all other statutes of
a general nature, whether of public or private law
(including the law of contracts), together with court
decisions in common law countries, or in all countries,
established case law interpreting a written law. In addition, it includes any act of a professional body under
powers delegated by the legislator and in accordance
with its independent rule-making powers.
33. Such a “law of the Parties” may be usefully reinforced by voluntary regulation measures in the field
of data protection, such as codes of good practice
or codes for professional conduct. However, such
voluntary measures are not by themselves sufficient
to ensure full compliance with the Convention.
34. Where international organisations are concerned,8
in some situations, the law of such international organisations may be applied directly at the national level of
the member States of such organisations depending
on each national legal system.

35. The effectiveness of the application of the measures giving effect to the provisions of the Convention
is of crucial importance. The role of the supervisory
authority (or authorities), together with any remedies
that are available to data subjects, should be considered in the overall assessment of the effectiveness of a
Party’s implementation of the Convention’s provisions.

36. It is further stipulated in paragraph 2 that the
measures giving effect to the Convention shall be taken
by the Parties concerned and shall have come into force
by the time of ratification or accession, that is when a
8.

International organisations are defined as organisations
governed by public international law.

Party becomes legally bound by the Convention. This
provision aims to enable the Convention Committee
to verify whether all “necessary measures” have been
taken, to ensure that the Parties to the Convention
observe their commitments and provide the expected
level of data protection in their national law. The process and criteria used for this verification are to be
clearly defined in the Convention Committee’s rules
of procedure.

37. Parties commit in paragraph 3 to contribute
actively to the evaluation of their compliance with their
commitments, with a view to ensuring regular assessment of the implementation of the principles of the
Convention (including its effectiveness). Submission
of reports by the Parties on the application of their
data protection law could be one possible element
of this active contribution.
38. In exercising its powers under paragraph 3, the
Convention Committee shall not evaluate whether a
Party has taken effective measures, to the extent it
has made use of exceptions and restrictions in accordance with the provisions of this Convention. It follows
that under Article 11 paragraph 3 a Party shall not
be required to provide classified information to the
Convention Committee.
39. The evaluation of a Party’s compliance will be
carried out by the Convention Committee on the
basis of an objective, fair and transparent procedure
established by the Convention Committee and fully
described in its rules of procedure.

Article 5 – Legitimacy of data processing
and quality of data
40. Paragraph 1 provides that data processing must
be proportionate, that is, appropriate in relation to the
legitimate purpose pursued and having regard to the
interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject or the
public interest. Such data processing should not lead
to a disproportionate interference with these interests,
rights and freedoms. The principle of proportionality is
to be respected at all stages of processing, including
at the initial stage, i.e. when deciding whether or not
to carry out the processing.

41. Paragraph 2 prescribes two alternate essential
pre-requisites for a lawful processing: the individual’s consent or a legitimate basis prescribed by law.
Paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Article 5 are cumulative and
must be respected in order to ensure the legitimacy
of the data processing.
42. The data subject’s consent must be freely given,
specific, informed and unambiguous. Such consent
must represent the free expression of an intentional
choice, given either by a statement (which can be
written, including by electronic means, or oral) or by a
clear affirmative action and which clearly indicates in
this specific context the acceptance of the proposed

Convention 108+ ► Page 19

processing of personal data. Mere silence, inactivity
or pre-validated forms or boxes should not, therefore,
constitute consent. Consent should cover all processing activities carried out for the same purpose or
purposes (in the case of multiple purposes, consent
should be given for each different purpose). There may
be cases with different consent decisions (e.g. where
the nature of the data is different even if the purpose
is the same – such as health data versus location data:
in such cases the data subject may consent to the
processing of his or her location data but not to the
processing of the health data). The data subject must
be informed of the implications of his or her decision
(what the fact of consenting entails and the extent to
which consent is given). No undue influence or pressure (which can be of an economic or other nature)
whether direct or indirect, may be exercised on the
data subject and consent should not be regarded as
freely given where the data subject has no genuine or
free choice or is unable to refuse or withdraw consent
without prejudice.
43. In the context of scientific research it is often
not possible to fully identify the purpose of personal
data processing for scientific research purposes at the
time of data collection. Therefore, data subjects should
be allowed to give their consent to certain areas of
scientific research in keeping with recognised ethical
standards for scientific research. Data subjects should
have the opportunity to give their consent only to
certain areas of research or parts of research projects
to the extent allowed by the intended purpose.

44. An expression of consent does not waive the
need to respect the basic principles for the protection
of personal data set out in Chapter II of the Convention
and the proportionality of the processing, for instance,
still has to be considered.

45. The data subject has the right to withdraw the
consent he or she gave at any time (which is to be
distinguished from the separate right to object to processing). This will not affect the lawfulness of the data
processing that occurred before the data controller has
received his or her withdrawal of consent but does not
allow continued processing of data, unless justified by
some other legitimate basis laid down by law.

46. The notion of “legitimate basis laid down by
law”, referred to in paragraph 2, encompasses, inter
alia, data processing necessary for the fulfilment of a
contract (or pre-contractual measures at the request
of the data subject) to which the data subject is party;
data processing necessary for the protection of the
vital interests of the data subject or of another person;
data processing necessary for compliance with a legal
obligation to which the controller is subject; and data
processing carried out on the basis of grounds of
public interest or for overriding legitimate interests
of the controller or of a third party.

Page 20 ► Convention 108+

47. Data processing carried out on grounds of public
interest should be provided for by law, inter alia, for
monetary, budgetary and taxation matters, public
health and social security, the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences
and the execution of criminal penalties, the protection of national security, defence, the prevention,
investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches
of ethics for regulated professions, the enforcement
of civil law claims and the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings. Data processing
may serve both a ground of public interest and the
vital interests of the data subject as, for instance, in
the case of data processed for humanitarian purposes
including monitoring a life-threatening epidemic and
its spread or in humanitarian emergencies. The latter
may occur in situations of natural disasters where
processing of personal data of missing persons may
be necessary for a limited time for purposes related to
the emergency context – which is to be evaluated on
a case-by-case basis. It can also occur in situations of
armed conflicts or other violence.9 The processing of
personal data by official authorities for the purpose
of achieving the aims, laid down by constitutional law
or by international public law, of officially recognised
religious associations can also be considered as being
carried out on grounds of public interest.

48. The conditions for legitimate processing are set
out in paragraphs 3 and 4. Personal data should be
processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner. Personal data must also have been collected for
explicit, specified and legitimate purposes, and the
processing of that particular data must serve those
purposes, or at least not be incompatible with them.
The reference to specified “purposes” indicates that
it is not permitted to process data for undefined,
imprecise or vague purposes. What is considered a
legitimate purpose depends on the circumstances
as the objective is to ensure that a balancing of all
rights, freedoms and interests at stake is made in each
instance; the right to the protection of personal data
on the one hand, and the protection of other rights on
the other hand, as, for example, between the interests
of the data subject and the interests of the controller
or of society.
49. The concept of compatible use should not hamper the transparency, legal certainty, predictability or
fairness of the processing. Personal data should not be
further processed in a way that the data subject might
consider unexpected, inappropriate or otherwise
objectionable. In order to ascertain whether a purpose
of further processing is compatible with the purpose for which the personal data is initially collected,
the controller, after having met all the requirements
9.

Where the four Geneva Conventions of 1949, the Additional
Protocols thereto of 1977, and the Statutes of the International
Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement apply.

for the lawfulness of the original processing, should
take into account, inter alia, any link between those
purposes and the purposes of the intended further
processing; the context in which the personal data has
been collected, in particular the reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship
with the controller as to its further use; the nature of
the personal data; the consequences of the intended
further processing for data subjects; and the existence
of appropriate safeguards in both the original and
intended further processing operations.

should be limited to what is necessary for the purpose
for which it is processed. It should only be processed
if, and as long as, the purposes cannot reasonably
be fulfilled by processing information that does not
involve personal data. Furthermore, this requirement
not only refers to the quantity, but also to the quality
of personal data. Personal data which is adequate
and relevant but would entail a disproportionate
interference in the fundamental rights and freedoms
at stake should be considered as excessive and not be
processed.

50. The further processing of personal data, referred
to in paragraph 4,b. for archiving purposes in the public
interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes is a priori considered as compatible provided that other safeguards exist (such as, for
instance, anonymisation of data or data pseudonymisation, except if retention of the identifiable form is
necessary; rules of professional secrecy; provisions
governing restricted access and communication of
data for the above-mentioned purposes, notably in
relation to statistics and public archives; and other
technical and organisational data-security measures)
and that the operations, in principle, exclude any use
of the information obtained for decisions or measures
concerning a particular individual. “Statistical purposes” refers to the elaboration of statistical surveys
or the production of statistical, aggregated results.
Statistics aim at analysing and characterising mass or
collective phenomena in a considered population.10
Statistical purposes can be pursued either by the public
or the private sector. Processing of data for “scientific
research purposes” aims at providing researchers
with information contributing to an understanding of
phenomena in varied scientific fields (epidemiology,
psychology, economics, sociology, linguistics, political
science, criminology, etc.) with a view to establishing
permanent principles, laws of behaviour or patterns of
causality which transcend all the individuals to whom
they apply.11 “Historical research purposes” includes
genealogical research. “Archiving purposes in the public interest” can also include archives originating from
private entities, where a public interest is involved.

53. The requirement of paragraph 4,e. concerning
the time-limits for the storage of personal data means
that data should be deleted once the purpose for
which it was processed has been achieved, or that it
should only be kept in a form that prevents any direct
or indirect identification of the data subject.

51. Personal data undergoing processing should be
adequate, relevant and not excessive. Furthermore,
the data should be accurate and, where necessary,
regularly kept up to date.
52. The requirement of paragraph 4,c. that data
be “not excessive” first requires that data processing
10. Recommendation No. R (97) 18 of the Committee of Ministers
to member States, concerning the protection of personal data
collected and processed for statistical purposes, Appendix,
point 1, 30 September 1997.
11. Explanatory Memorandum to Recommendation No. R (97) 18
of the Committee of Ministers to member States, concerning
the protection of personal data collected and processed for
statistical purposes, paragraphs 11 and 14.

54. Limited exceptions to Article 5 paragraph 4 are
permitted under the conditions specified in Article 11
paragraph 1.

Article 6 – Special categories of data
55. Processing of certain types of data, or processing
of certain data for the sensitive information it reveals,
may lead to encroachments on interests, rights and
freedoms. This can for instance be the case where
there is a potential risk of discrimination or injury to
an individual’s dignity or physical integrity, where the
data subject’s most intimate sphere, such as his or
her sex life or sexual orientation, is being affected, or
where processing of data could affect the presumption of innocence. It should only be permitted where
appropriate safeguards, which complement the other
protective provisions of the Convention, are provided
for by law. The requirement of appropriate safeguards,
complementing the provisions of the Convention, does
not exclude the possibility provided under Article 11
to allow exceptions and restrictions to the rights of
data subjects granted under Article 9.
56. In order to prevent adverse effects for the data
subject, processing of sensitive data for legitimate
purposes needs to be accompanied by appropriate
safeguards (which are adapted to the risks at stake and
the interests, rights and freedoms to be protected),
such as for instance, alone or cumulatively; the data
subject’s explicit consent; a law covering the intended
purpose and means of the processing or indicating
the exceptional cases where processing such data
would be permitted; a professional secrecy obligation;
measures following a risk analysis; a particular and
qualified organisational or technical security measure
(data encryption, for example).
57. Specific types of data processing may entail
a particular risk for data subjects independently of
the context of the processing. This is, for instance,
the case with the processing of genetic data, which

Convention 108+ ► Page 21

can be left by individuals and can reveal information
on the health or filiation of the person, as well as of
third parties. Genetic data are all data relating to the
genetic characteristics of an individual which have
been either inherited or acquired during early prenatal development, as they result from an analysis of
a biological sample from the individual concerned:
chromosomal, DNA or RNA analysis or analysis of any
other element enabling equivalent information to
be obtained. Similar risks occur with the processing
of data related to criminal offences (which includes
suspected offences), criminal convictions (based on
criminal law and in the framework of criminal proceedings) and related security measures (involving
deprivation of liberty for instance) which require the
provision of appropriate safeguards for the rights and
freedoms of data subjects.
58. Processing of biometric data, that is data resulting
from a specific technical processing of data concerning
the physical, biological or physiological characteristics
of an individual which allows the unique identification
or authentication of the individual, is also considered
sensitive when it is precisely used to uniquely identify
the data subject.

59. The context of the processing of images is relevant to the determination of the sensitive nature of
the data. The processing of images will not generally
involve processing of sensitive data as the images
will only be covered by the definition of biometric
data when being processed through a specific technical mean which permits the unique identification or
authentication of an individual. Furthermore, where
processing of images is intended to reveal racial, ethnic or health information (see the following point),
such processing will be considered as processing of
sensitive data. On the contrary, images processed by
a video surveillance system solely for security reasons
in a shopping area will not generally be considered
as processing of sensitive data.
60. Processing of sensitive data has the potential
to adversely affect data subjects’ rights when it is
processed for specific information it reveals. While the
processing of family names can in many circumstances
be void of any risk for individuals (e.g. common payroll
purposes), such processing could in some cases involve
sensitive data, for example when the purpose is to
reveal the ethnic origin or religious beliefs of the individuals based on the linguistic origin of their names.
Information concerning health includes information
concerning the past, present and future, physical or
mental health of an individual, and which may refer
to a person who is sick or healthy. Processing images
of persons with thick glasses, a broken leg, burnt skin
or any other visible characteristics related to a person’s
health can only be considered as processing sensitive data when the processing is based on the health
information that can be extracted from the pictures.

Page 22 ► Convention 108+

61. Where sensitive data has to be processed for a
statistical purpose it should be collected in such a way
that the data subject is not identifiable. Collection of
sensitive data without identification data is a safeguard
within the meaning of Article 6. Where there is a
legitimate need to collect sensitive data for statistical purposes in identifiable form (so that a repeat or
longitudinal survey can be carried out, for example),
appropriate safeguards should be put in place.12

Article 7 – Data security
62. The controller and, where applicable the processor, should take specific security measures, both
of technical and organisational nature, for each processing, taking into account: the potential adverse
consequences for the individual, the nature of the
personal data, the volume of personal data processed,
the degree of vulnerability of the technical architecture
used for the processing, the need to restrict access to
the data, requirements concerning long-term storage,
and so forth.

63. Security measures should take into account the
current state of the art of data-security methods and
techniques in the field of data processing. Their cost
should be commensurate with the seriousness and
probability of the potential risks. Security measures
should be kept under review and updated where
necessary.
64. While security measures are aimed at preventing a number of risks, paragraph 2 contains a specific
obligation in cases where a data breach has nevertheless occurred that may seriously interfere with the
fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual.
For instance, the disclosure of data covered by professional confidentiality, or which may result in financial,
reputational, or physical harm or humiliation, could
be deemed to constitute a “serious” interference.
65. Where such a data breach has occurred, the
controller is required to notify the relevant supervisory
authorities of the incident, subject to the exception
permitted under Article 11 paragraph 1. This is the
minimum requirement. The controller should also
notify the supervisory authorities of any measures
taken and/or proposed to address the breach and its
potential consequences.

66. The notification made by the controller to the
supervisory authorities does not preclude other complementary notifications. For instance, the controller
may also recognise the need to notify the data subjects in particular when the data breach is likely to
result in a significant risk for the rights and freedoms
of individuals, such as discrimination, identity theft
or fraud, financial loss, damage to reputation, loss
12. See Recommendation Rec No. (97)18 of the Committee of
Ministers, op cit.

of confidentiality of data protected by professional
secrecy or any other significant economic or social
disadvantage, and to provide them with adequate
and meaningful information on, notably, the contact
points and possible measures that they could take to
mitigate the adverse effects of the breach. In cases
where the controller does not spontaneously inform
the data subject of the data breach, the supervisory
authority, having considered the likely adverse effects
of the breach, should be allowed to require the controller to do so. Notification to other relevant authorities
such as those in charge of computer systems security
may also be desirable.

Article 8 – Transparency of processing
67. The controller is required to act transparently
when processing data in order to ensure fair processing
and to enable data subjects to understand and thus
fully exercise their rights in the context of such data
processing.
68. Certain essential information has to be compulsorily provided in a proactive manner by the controller
to the data subjects when directly or indirectly (not
through the data subject but through a third-party)
collecting their data, subject to the possibility to provide for exceptions in line with Article 11 paragraph 1.
Information on the name and address of the controller
(or co-controllers), the legal basis and the purposes of
the data processing, the categories of data processed
and recipients, as well as the means of exercising the
rights can be provided in any appropriate format
(either through a website, technological tools on personal devices, etc.) as long as the information is fairly
and effectively presented to the data subject. The
information presented should be easily accessible,
legible, understandable and adapted to the relevant
data subjects (for example, in a child friendly language
where necessary). Any additional information that
is necessary to ensure fair data processing or that is
useful for such purposes, such as the preservation
period, the knowledge of the reasoning underlying
the data processing, or information on data transfers
to a recipient in another Party or non-Party (including
whether that particular non-Party provides an appropriate level of data protection, or the measures taken
by the controller to guarantee such an appropriate
level of data protection) is also to be provided.

69. The controller is not required to provide this
information where the data subject has already
received it, or in the case of an indirect collection of
data through third parties where the processing is
expressly prescribed by law, or where this proves to
be impossible or it involves disproportionate efforts
because the data subject is not directly identifiable or
the controller has no way to contact the data subject.
Such impossibility can be both of a legal nature (in the
context of a criminal investigation for instance) or of a

practical nature (for instance when a controller is only
processing pictures and does not know the names
and contact details of the data subjects).
70. The data controller may use any available, reasonable and affordable means to inform data subjects
collectively (through a website or public notice) or
individually. If it is impossible to do so when commencing the processing, it can be done at a later stage, for
instance when the controller is put in contact with
the data subject for any new reason.

Article 9 – Rights of the data subject
71. This article lists the rights that every individual
should be able to exercise concerning the processing
of personal data relating to him or her. Each Party shall
ensure, within its legal order, that all those rights are
available for every data subject together with the
necessary legal and practical, adequate and effective
means to exercise them.
72.

These rights include the following:
– the right of everyone not to be subject to a
purely automated decision significantly affecting them without having their views taken
into consideration (littera a.) ;
– the right of everyone to request confirmation
of a processing of data relating to them and
to access the data at reasonable intervals and
without excessive delay or expense (littera b.);
– the right of everyone to be provided, on
request, with knowledge of the reasoning
underlying data processing where the results
of such processing are applied to them (littera c.);
– the right of everyone to object on grounds
relating to their situation, to a processing of
personal data relating to them, unless the controller demonstrates legitimate grounds for
the processing which override their interests
or rights and fundamental freedoms (littera d.);
– the right of everyone to rectification or erasure
of inaccurate, false, or unlawfully processed
data (littera e.);
– the right of everyone to a remedy if any of
the previous rights is not respected (littera f.);
– the right of everyone to obtain assistance from
a supervisory authority (littera g.).

73. These rights may have to be reconciled with
other rights and legitimate interests. They can, in
accordance with Article 11, be limited only where this
is provided for by law and constitutes a necessary and
proportionate measure in a democratic society. For
instance, the right to erasure of personal data may be
restricted to the extent that processing is necessary
for compliance with a legal obligation which requires
processing by law to which the controller is subject or

Convention 108+ ► Page 23

for the performance of a task carried out in the public
interest or in the exercise of official authority vested
in the controller.

74. While the Convention does not specify from
whom a data subject may obtain confirmation, communication, rectification, and so on, or to whom to
object or express his or her views, in most cases, this
will be the controller, or the processor on his or her
behalf. In exceptional cases, the means to exercise
the rights to access, rectification and erasure may
involve the intermediary of the supervisory authority.
Concerning health data, rights may also be exercised
in a different manner than through direct access. They
may be exercised, for instance, with the assistance of
a health professional when it is in the interest of the
data subject, notably to help him/her understand the
data or ensure that the data subject’s psychological
state is appropriately considered when imparting
information – in line, of course, with deontological
principles.
75. Littera a. It is essential that an individual who
may be subject to a purely automated decision has
the right to challenge such a decision by putting forward, in a meaningful manner, his or her point of view
and arguments. In particular, the data subject should
have the opportunity to substantiate the possible
inaccuracy of the personal data before it is used, the
irrelevance of the profile to be applied to his or her
particular situation, or other factors that will have an
impact on the result of the automated decision. This
is notably the case where individuals are stigmatised
by application of algorithmic reasoning resulting in
limitation of a right or refusal of a social benefit or
where they see their credit capacity evaluated by a
software only. However, an individual cannot exercise
this right if the automated decision is authorised by a
law to which the controller is subject and which also
lays down suitable measures to safeguard the data
subject’s rights and freedoms and legitimate interests.

76. Littera b. Data subjects should be entitled to
know about the processing of their personal data. The
right of access should, in principle, be free of charge.
However, the wording of littera b. is intended to allow
the controller in certain specific conditions to charge
a reasonable fee where the requests are excessive and
to cover various approaches that could be adopted
by a Party for appropriate cases. Such a fee should
be exceptional and in any case reasonable, and not
prevent or dissuade data subjects from exercising
their rights. The controller or processor could also
refuse to respond to manifestly unfounded or excessive requests, in particular because of their repetitive
character. The controller should in all cases justify such
a refusal. To ensure a fair exercise of the right of access,
the communication “in an intelligible form” applies to
the content as well as to the form of a standardised
digital communication.

Page 24 ► Convention 108+

77. Littera c. Data subjects should be entitled to
know the reasoning underlying the processing of
data, including the consequences of such a reasoning,
which led to any resulting conclusions, in particular in
cases involving the use of algorithms for automateddecision making including profiling. For instance in
the case of credit scoring, they should be entitled to
know the logic underpinning the processing of their
data and resulting in a “yes” or “no” decision, and not
simply information on the decision itself. Having an
understanding of these elements contributes to the
effective exercise of other essential safeguards such
as the right to object and the right to complain to a
competent authority.
78. Littera d. As regards the right to object, the controller may have a legitimate ground for data processing,
which overrides the interests or rights and freedoms
of the data subject. For example, the establishment,
exercise or defence of legal claims or reasons of public
safety could be considered as overriding legitimate
grounds justifying the continuation of the processing.
This will have to be demonstrated on a case-by-case
basis and failure to demonstrate such compelling legitimate grounds while pursuing the processing could be
considered as unlawful. The right to object operates in
a distinct and separate manner from the right to obtain
rectification or erasure (littera e.).
79. Objection to data processing for marketing purposes should lead to unconditional erasing or removing of the personal data covered by the objection.

80. The right to object may be limited by virtue of
a law, for example, for the purpose of the investigation or prosecution of criminal offences. In this case,
the data subject can, as the case may be, challenge
the lawfulness of the processing on which it is based.
When data processing is based on valid consent given
by the data subject, the right to withdraw consent
can be exercised instead of the right to object. A data
subject may withdraw his or her consent and subsequently have to assume the consequences possibly
deriving from other legal texts such as the obligation
to compensate the controller. Likewise where data
processing is based on a contract, the data subject
can take the necessary steps to revoke the contract.
81. Littera e. The rectification or erasure, if justified,
must be free of charge. In the case of rectifications
and erasures obtained in conformity with the principle
set out in littera e., those rectifications and erasures
should, where possible, be brought to the attention of
the recipients of the original information, unless this
proves to be impossible or involves disproportionate
efforts.
82. Littera g. aims at ensuring effective protection
of data subjects by providing them the right to an
assistance of a supervisory authority in exercising the
rights provided by the Convention. When the data

subject resides in the territory of another Party, he or
she can submit the request through the intermediary
of the authority designated by that Party. The request
for assistance should contain sufficient information to
permit identification of the data processing in question. This right can be limited according to Article 11
or adapted in order to safeguard the interests of a
pending judicial procedure.
83. Limited exceptions to Article 9 are permitted under the conditions specified in Article 11,
paragraph 1.

Article 10 - Additional obligations
84. In order to ensure that the right to the protection
of personal data is effective, additional obligations are
imposed on the controller as well as, where applicable,
the processor(s).
85. According to paragraph 1, the obligation on the
controller to ensure adequate data protection is linked
to the responsibility to verify and be in a position to
demonstrate that data processing is in compliance
with the applicable law. The data protection principles
set out in the Convention, which are to be applied at
all stages of processing, including the design phase,
aim at protecting data subjects and are also a mechanism for enhancing their trust. Appropriate measures
that the controller and processor may have to take
to ensure compliance include: training employees;
setting up appropriate notification procedures (for
instance to indicate when data have to be deleted
from the system); establishing specific contractual
provisions where the processing is delegated in order
to give effect to the Convention; as well as setting up
internal procedures to enable the verification and
demonstration of compliance.

86. If, in accordance with Article 11, paragraph 3,
a Party choses to limit the powers of a supervisory
authority within the meaning of Article 15 with reference to processing activities for national security and
defence purposes, the controller has no obligation to
demonstrate to such a supervisory authority compliance with data protection requirements for activities falling within the scope of the aforementioned
exception.

87. A possible measure that could be taken by the
controller to facilitate such a verification and demonstration of compliance would be the designation of
a “data protection officer” entrusted with the means
necessary to fulfil his or her mandate. Such a data
protection officer, whose designation should be notified to the supervisory authority, could be internal or
external to the controller.
88. Paragraph 2 clarifies that before carrying out a
data processing activity, the controller will have to
examine its potential impact on the rights and fundamental freedoms of the data subjects. This examination

can be done without excessive formalities. It will also
have to consider respect for the proportionality principle on the basis of a comprehensive overview of the
intended processing. In some circumstances, where
a processor is involved in addition to the controller,
the processor will also have to examine the risks. IT
systems developers, including security professionals,
or designers, together with users and legal experts
could assist in examining the risks.

89. Paragraph 3 specifies that in order to better guarantee an effective level of protection, controllers, and,
where applicable, processors, should ensure that data
protection requirements are integrated as early as possible, that is, ideally at the stage of architecture and
system design, in data processing operations through
technical and organisational measures (data protection
by design). This implementation of data protection
requirements should be achieved not only as regards
the technology used for processing the data, but also
the related work and management processes. Easyto-use functionalities that facilitate compliance with
applicable law should be put in place. For example,
secure online access to one’s own data should be
offered to data subjects where possible and relevant.
There should also be easy-to-use tools to enable data
subjects to take their data to another provider of their
choice or keep the data themselves (data portability
tools). When setting up the technical requirements
for default settings, controllers and processors should
choose privacy-friendly standard configurations so
that the usage of applications and software does not
infringe the rights of the data subjects (data protection
by default), notably to avoid processing more data
than necessary to achieve the legitimate purpose.
For example, social networks should be configured
by default so as to share posts or pictures only with
restricted and chosen circles and not with the whole
internet.
90. Paragraph 4 allows Parties to adapt the additional
obligations listed in paragraphs 1 to 3 taking into
consideration the risks at stake for the interests, rights
and fundamental freedoms of the data subjects. Such
adaptation should be done considering the nature
and volume of data processed, the nature, scope and
purposes of the data processing and, in certain cases,
the size of the processing entity. The obligations could
be adapted, for example, so as not to entail excessive
costs for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
processing only non-sensitive personal data received
from customers in the framework of commercial activities and not re-using it for other purposes. Certain
categories of data processing, such as processing
which does not entail any risk for data subjects, may
even be exempt from some of the additional obligations prescribed in this article.

Convention 108+ ► Page 25

Article 11 – Exceptions and restrictions
91. No exceptions to the provisions of Chapter II
are allowed except for a limited number of provisions (Article 5 paragraph 4, Article 7 paragraph 2,
Article 8 paragraph 1 and Article 9) on condition that
such exceptions are provided for by law, that they
respect the essence of the fundamental rights and
freedoms, and are necessary in a democratic society
for the grounds listed in litterae a. and b. of the first
paragraph of Article 11. A measure which is “necessary
in a democratic society” must pursue a legitimate aim
and thus meet a pressing social need which cannot
be achieved by less intrusive means. Such a measure
should, furthermore, be proportionate to the legitimate aim being pursued and the reasons adduced by
the national authorities to justify it should be relevant
and adequate. Such a measure must be prescribed
by an accessible and foreseeable law, which must be
sufficiently detailed.

92. All processing of personal data must be lawful,
fair and transparent in relation to the data subjects,
and only processed for specific purposes. This does not
in itself prevent the law enforcement authorities from
carrying out activities such as covert investigations or
video surveillance. Such activities can be done for the
purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offences and the execution of
criminal penalties, including the safeguarding against
and the prevention of threats to national security and
public safety, as long as they are laid down by law and
constitute a necessary and proportionate measure in a
democratic society with due regard for the legitimate
interests of the data subjects.

93. The necessity of such exceptions needs to be
examined on a case-by-case basis and in light of the
essential objectives of general public interest, as is
detailed in litterae a. and b. of the first paragraph. Littera
a. lists some objectives of general public interest of
the State or of the international organisation which
may require exceptions.

94. The notion of “national security” should be interpreted on the basis of the relevant case law of the
European Court of Human Rights.13
95. The term “important economic and financial
interests” covers, in particular, tax collection requirements and exchange control. The term “prevention,
investigation and prosecution of criminal offences
and the execution of criminal penalties” in this littera
includes the prosecution of criminal offences and
13. The relevant case law includes in particular the protection
of state security and constitutional democracy from, inter
alia, espionage, terrorism, support for terrorism and separatism. Where national security is at stake, safeguards against
unfettered power must be provided. Relevant decisions of
the European Court of Human Rights can be found at the
Court’s website (hudoc.echr.coe.int).

Page 26 ► Convention 108+

the application of sanctions related thereto. The term
“other essential objectives of general public interest”
covers inter alia, the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for regulated
professions and the enforcement of civil law claims.

96. Littera b. concerns the rights and fundamental
freedoms of private parties, such as those of the data
subject himself or herself (for example when a data
subject’s vital interests are threatened because he or
she is missing) or of third parties, such as freedom of
expression, including freedom of journalistic, academic, artistic or literary expression, and the right
to receive and impart information, confidentiality of
correspondence and communications, or business
or commercial secrecy and other legally protected
secrets. This should apply in particular to processing
of personal data in the audio-visual field and in news
archives and press libraries. In order to take account of
the importance of the right to freedom of expression
in every democratic society, it is necessary to interpret
notions relating to that freedom, such as journalism,
broadly.

97. The second paragraph leaves open the possibility
of restricting the provisions set out in Articles 8 and
9 with regard to certain data processing carried out
for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific
or historical research purposes, or statistical purposes
which pose no recognisable risk of infringement to the
rights and fundamental freedoms of data subjects. For
instance, this could be the case with the use of data
for statistical work, in the public and private fields
alike, in so far as this data is published in aggregate
form and provided that appropriate data protection
safeguards are in place (see paragraph 50).
98. The additional exceptions allowed to Article 4
paragraph 3, Article 14 paragraphs 5 and 6, and Article
15 paragraph 2, litterae a., b., c., and d., in respect of
processing activities for national security and defence
purposes are without prejudice to applicable requirements in relation to the independence and effectiveness of review and supervision mechanisms.14

Article 12 – Sanctions and remedies
99. In order for the Convention to guarantee an
effective level of data protection, the duties of the
controller and processor and the rights of data subjects should be reflected in the Parties’ legislation with
corresponding sanctions and remedies.
14. For Parties that are Council of Europe member States, such
requirements have been developed by the case law of the
European Court of Human Rights under Article 8 of the
ECHR (see in particular ECtHR, Roman Zakharov v. Russia
(Application No. 47143/06), 4 December 2015, paragraph 233;
Szabó and Vissy v. Hungary (Application No. 37138/14), 12
January 2016, paragraphs 75 et seq.).

100. It is left to each Party to determine the nature
(civil, administrative, criminal) of these judicial as well
as non-judicial sanctions. These sanctions have to be
effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The same goes
for remedies: data subjects must have the possibility
to judicially challenge a decision or practice, the definition of the modalities to do so being left with the
Parties. Non-judicial remedies also have to be made
available to data subjects. Financial compensation for
material and non-material damages where applicable,
caused by the processing and collective actions could
also be considered.

104. Article 14 applies only to the outflow of data, not
to its inflow, since the latter are covered by the data
protection regime of the recipient Party.

Article 13 – Extended protection

106. The rationale of the provision in paragraph
1 is that all Parties, having subscribed to the common core of data protection provisions set out in the
Convention, are expected to offer a level of protection that is considered appropriate and therefore in
principle allows data to circulate freely. There might,
however, be exceptional cases where there is a real and
serious risk that this free circulation of personal data
will lead to the circumvention of the provisions of the
Convention. As an exception, this provision has to be
interpreted restrictively and Parties cannot rely on it
in cases where the risk is either hypothetical or minor.
Therefore, a Party may only invoke the exception in a
specific case when it has clear and reliable evidence
that transferring the data to another Party could significantly undermine the protections afforded to that
data under the Convention, and that the likelihood
of this happening is high. This might be the case, for
instance, when certain protections afforded under the
Convention are no longer guaranteed by the other
Party (for instance because its supervisory authority
is no longer able to effectively exercise its functions)
or when data transferred to another Party is likely to
be further transferred (onward transfer) without an
appropriate level of protection being ensured. A further
exception recognised in international law exists where
Parties are bound by harmonised rules of protection
shared by States belonging to regional (economic)
organisations that seek a deeper level of integration.

101. This article is based on a similar provision, Article
53 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The
Convention confirms the principles of data protection law which all Parties are ready to adopt. The text
emphasises that these principles constitute only a
basis on which Parties may build a more advanced
system of protection. The expression “wider measure of
protection” therefore refers to a standard of protection
which is higher, not lower, than that already required
by the Convention.

Chapter III – Transborder flows of
personal data15
Article 14 – Transborder flows of
personal data
102. The aim of this article is to facilitate the free
flow of information regardless of frontiers (recalled
in the preamble), while ensuring an appropriate protection of individuals with regard to the processing
of personal data. A transborder data transfer occurs
when personal data is disclosed or made available to
a recipient subject to the jurisdiction of another State
or international organisation.

103. The purpose of the transborder flow regime
is to ensure that personal data originally processed
within the jurisdiction of a Party (data collected or
stored there, for instance), which is subsequently
under the jurisdiction of a State which is not Party
to the Convention, continues to be processed with
appropriate safeguards. What is important is that data
processed within the jurisdiction of a Party always
remains protected by the relevant data protection
principles of the Convention. While there may be
a wide variety of systems of protection, protection
afforded has to be of such quality as to ensure that
human rights are not affected by globalisation and
transborder data flows.
15. From the entry into force of the Amending Protocol, the
Additional Protocol regarding supervisory authorities and
transborder flows (ETS No. 181) shall be considered an integral
part of the Convention as amended.

105. Paragraph 1 applies to data flows between Parties
to the Convention. Data flows cannot be prohibited
or subjected to special authorisation “for the sole purpose of the protection of personal data”. However, the
Convention does not restrict the freedom of a Party
to limit the transfer of personal data to another Party
for other purposes, including for instance national
security, defence, public safety, or other important
public interests (including protection of state secrecy).

107. Among others, this applies to the member States
of the EU. However, as explicitly stated in the General
Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679, a third
country’s accession to Convention 108 and its implementation will be an important factor when applying
the EU’s international transfer regime, in particular
when assessing whether the third country offers an
adequate level of protection (which in turn allows the
free flow of personal data).

108. Paragraph 2 provides for an obligation to ensure,
in principle, that “an appropriate level of protection
based on the provisions of the Convention is secured”.
At the same time, according to paragraph 4, Parties
may transfer data even in the absence of an appropriate level of protection where this is justified, among

Convention 108+ ► Page 27

others, by “prevailing legitimate interests, in particular
important public interests” to the extent these are
provided for by law and such transfers constitute a
necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic
society (littera c.). Personal data may thus be transferred
on grounds that are similar to those listed in Article 11,
paragraphs 1 and 3. In all cases, Parties remain free
under the Convention to restrict data transfers to
non-Parties, be it for the purpose of data protection
or for other reasons.
109. Paragraph 2 refers to transborder flows of personal data to a recipient that is not subject to the
jurisdiction of a Party. As for any personal data flowing outside national frontiers, an appropriate level
of protection is to be guaranteed. In cases where
the recipient is not a Party to the Convention, the
Convention establishes two mechanisms to ensure
that the level of data protection is indeed appropriate;
either by law, or by ad hoc or approved standardised
safeguards that are legally binding and enforceable,
as well as duly implemented.
110. Paragraphs 2 and 3 apply to all forms of appropriate protection, whether provided by law or by
standardised safeguards. The law must include the
relevant elements of data protection as set out in this
Convention. The level of protection should be assessed
for each transfer or category of transfers. Various elements of the transfer should be examined such as: the
type of data; the purposes and duration of processing
for which the data are transferred; the respect of the
rule of law by the country of final destination; the
general and sectoral legal rules applicable in the State
or organisation in question; and the professional and
security rules which apply there.
111. The content of the ad hoc or standardised safeguards must include the relevant elements of data
protection. Moreover, the contractual terms could be
such, for example, that the data subject is provided
with a contact person on the staff of the person responsible for the data transfers, whose responsibility it is to
ensure compliance with the substantive standards of
protection. The data subject would be free to contact
this person at any time and at no cost in relation to
the data processing or transfers and, where applicable,
obtain assistance in exercising his or her rights.
112. The assessment as to whether the level of protection is appropriate must take into account the
principles of the Convention, the extent to which they
are met in the recipient State or organisation – in so
far as they are relevant for the specific case of transfer – and how the data subject is able to defend his
or her interests where there is non-compliance. The
enforceability of data subjects’ rights and the provision of effective administrative and judicial redress
for the data subjects whose personal data are being
transferred should be taken into consideration in the

Page 28 ► Convention 108+

assessment. Similarly, the assessment can be made for
a whole State or organisation thereby permitting all
data transfers to such a destination.
113. Paragraph 4 enables Parties to derogate from the
principle of requiring an appropriate level of protection
and to allow a transfer to a recipient which does not
ensure such protection. Such derogations are permitted in limited situations only: with the data subject’s
consent or specific interest and/or where there are
prevailing legitimate interests provided by law and/
or the transfer constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society for freedom
of expression. Such derogations should respect the
principles of necessity and proportionality.
114. Paragraph 5 makes provision for a complementary safeguard: namely that the competent supervisory
authority be provided with all relevant information
concerning the transfers of data referred to in paragraphs 3.b, and, upon request 4.b and 4.c. The authority
should be entitled to request relevant information
about the circumstances and justification of these
transfers. Under the conditions laid down in Article
11, paragraph 3, exceptions to Article 14, paragraph
5 are permissible.
115. According to paragraph 6, the supervisory authority should be entitled to request that the effectiveness
of the measures taken or the existence of prevailing
legitimate interests be demonstrated, and to prohibit,
suspend or impose conditions on the transfer if this
proves necessary to protect the rights and fundamental freedoms of the data subjects. Under the conditions
laid down in Article 11, paragraph 3 exceptions to
Article 14, paragraph 6 are permissible.

116. Ever increasing data flows and the related need
to increase the protection of personal data also require
an increase in international enforcement co-operation
among competent supervisory authorities.

Chapter IV – Supervisory authorities16
Article 15 – Supervisory authorities
117. This article aims at ensuring the effective protection of individuals by requiring the Parties to provide
for one or more independent and impartial public
supervisory authorities that contribute to the protection of the individuals’ rights and freedoms with regard
to the processing of their personal data. Such authorities may be a single commissioner or a collegiate body.
In order for data protection supervisory authorities to
be able to provide for an appropriate remedy, they
need to have effective powers and functions and enjoy
16. From the entry into force of the Amending Protocol, the
Additional Protocol regarding supervisory authorities and
transborder flows (ETS No. 181) shall be considered an integral
part of the Convention as amended.

genuine independence in the fulfilment of their duties.
They are an essential component of the data protection
supervisory system in a democratic society. In so far
as Article 11, paragraph 3, applies, other appropriate
mechanisms for independent and effective review
and supervision of processing activities for national
security and defence purposes may be provided for
by the Parties.

118. Paragraph 1 clarifies that more than one authority
might be needed to meet the particular circumstances
of different legal systems (e.g. federal States). Specific
supervisory authorities whose activity is limited to a
specific sector (electronic communications sector,
health sector, public sector, etc.) may also be put
in place. This also applies to the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes if it is necessary
to reconcile the right to the protection of personal
data with the right to freedom of expression. The
supervisory authorities should have the necessary
infrastructure and financial, technical and human
resources (lawyers, IT specialists) to take prompt and
effective action. The adequacy of resources should be
kept under review. Article 11, paragraph 3 allows for
exceptions to the powers of supervisory authorities
with reference to processing activities for national
security and defence purposes (where such exceptions apply, other paragraphs of this article may as
a consequence not be applicable or relevant). This is
however without prejudice to applicable requirements
in relation to the independence and effectiveness of
review and supervision mechanisms.17

119. Parties have a certain amount of discretion as
to how to set up the authorities for enabling them to
carry out their task. According to paragraph 2, however,
they must have, subject to the possibility to provide
for exceptions in line with Article 11, paragraph 3, at
least the powers of investigation and intervention
and the powers to issue decisions with respect to
violations of the provisions of the Convention. The
latter may involve the imposition of administrative
sanctions, including fines. Where the legal system of
the Party does not provide for administrative sanctions,
paragraph 2 may be applied in such a manner that the
sanction is proposed by the competent supervisory
authority and imposed by the competent national
courts. In any event, any sanctions imposed need to
be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
120. The authority shall be endowed with powers of
investigation, subject to the possibility to provide for
exceptions in line with Article 11, paragraph 3, such
as the possibility to ask the controller and processor
for information concerning the processing of personal
data and to obtain it. By virtue of Article 15, such
information should be made available, in particular,
when the supervisory authority is approached by a
data subject wishing to exercise the rights provided
17. See footnote 14.

for in Article 9. The latter is subject to exceptions of
Article 11, paragraph 1.
121. The supervisory authority’s power of intervention, provided for in paragraph 1, may take various
forms in the Parties’ law. For example, the authority
could be empowered to oblige the controller to rectify,
delete or destroy inaccurate or illegally processed data
on its own account or if the data subject is not able
to exercise these rights personally. The power to take
action against controllers who are unwilling to communicate the required information within a reasonable
time would also be a particularly effective demonstration of the power of intervention. This power could
also include the possibility to issue opinions prior to
the implementation of data processing operations
(where processing presents particular risks to the rights
and fundamental freedoms, the supervisory authority
should be consulted by controllers from the earliest
stage of design of the processes), or to refer cases,
where appropriate, to relevant competent authorities.
122. Moreover, according to paragraph 4 every data
subject should have the possibility to request the
supervisory authority to investigate a claim concerning
his or her rights and liberties in respect of personal
data processing. This helps to guarantee the right to
an appropriate remedy, in keeping with Articles 9 and
12. The necessary resources to fulfil this duty should
be provided. According to their available resources,
the supervisory authorities should be given the possibility to define priorities to deal with the requests
and complaints lodged by data subjects.
123. The Parties should give the supervisory authority the power either to engage in legal proceedings
or to bring any violations of data protection rules to
the attention of the judicial authorities, subject to the
possibility to provide for exceptions in line with Article
11 paragraph 3. This power derives from the power to
carry out investigations, which may lead the authority
to discover an infringement of an individual’s right
to protection. The Parties may fulfil the obligation
to grant this power to the authority by enabling it to
make decisions.
124. Where an administrative decision produces legal
effects, every affected person has the right to have
an effective judicial remedy in accordance with the
applicable national law.

125. Paragraph 2,e. deals with the awareness raising
role of the supervisory authorities. In this context, it
seems particularly important that the supervisory
authority proactively ensures the visibility of its activities, functions and powers. To this end, the supervisory
authority must inform the public through periodical
reports (see paragraph 131). It may also publish opinions, issue general recommendations concerning the
correct implementation of data protection rules or
use any other means of communication. Moreover,
it must provide information to individuals and to

Convention 108+ ► Page 29

data controllers and processors about their rights and
obligations concerning data protection. While raising
awareness on data protection issues, the authorities
have to be attentive to specifically address children
and vulnerable categories of persons through adapted
ways and languages.
126. As provided for under paragraph 3, supervisory
authorities are, in accordance with the applicable
national law, entitled to give opinions on any legislative or administrative measures which provide for the
processing of personal data. Only general measures
are meant to be covered by this consultative power,
not individual measures.
127. In addition to this consultation foreseen under
paragraph 3, the authority could also be asked to give
its opinion when other measures concerning personal
data processing are in preparation, such as for instance
codes of conduct or technical norms.
128. Article 15 does not prevent the allocation of
other powers to the supervisory authorities.

129. Paragraph 5 clarifies that supervisory authorities
cannot effectively safeguard individual rights and freedoms unless they exercise their functions in complete
independence. A number of elements contribute to
safeguarding the independence of the supervisory
authority in the exercise of its functions, including
the composition of the authority; the method for
appointing its members; the duration of exercise and
conditions of cessation of their functions; the possibility for them to participate in relevant meetings without
undue restrictions; the option to consult technical or
other experts or to hold external consultations; the
availability of sufficient resources to the authority;
the possibility to hire its own staff; or the adoption of
decisions without being subject to external interference, whether direct or indirect.

130. The prohibition on seeking or accepting instructions covers the performance of the duties as a supervisory authority. This does not prevent supervisory
authorities from seeking specialised advice where it is
deemed necessary as long as the supervisory authorities exercise their own independent judgment.
131. Transparency on the work and activities of the
supervisory authorities is required under paragraph 7
through, for instance, the publication of annual activity reports comprising inter alia information related to
their enforcement actions.

132. Notwithstanding this independence, it must be
possible to appeal against the decisions of the supervisory authorities through the courts in accordance
with the principle of the rule of law, as provided for
under paragraph 9.
133. Moreover, while supervisory authorities should
have the legal capacity to act in court and seek enforcement, the intervention (or lack of ) of a supervisory

Page 30 ► Convention 108+

authority should not prevent an affected individual
from seeking a judicial remedy (see paragraph 124).
134. Paragraph 10 of Article 15 states that supervisory
authorities shall not be competent with respect to
processing carried out by independent bodies when
acting in their judicial capacity. Such exemption from
supervisory powers should be strictly limited to genuine judicial activities, in accordance with national law.

Chapter V – Co-operation and mutual
assistance
Article 16 – Designation of supervisory
authorities
135. Chapter V (Articles 16 to 21) forms a set of provisions on co-operation and mutual assistance between
Parties, through their various authorities, in giving
effect to the data protection laws implemented pursuant to the Convention. These provisions are obligatory
except in cases referred to in Article 20. Under Article
16, the Parties shall designate one or more authorities
and communicate their contact details, as well as their
substantive and territorial competences, if applicable,
to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Subsequent articles provide for a detailed framework
for co-operation and mutual assistance.
136. While the co-operation between Parties will
generally be carried out by the supervisory authorities
established under Article 15, it cannot be excluded that
a Party designates another authority to give effect to
the provisions of Article 16.
137. The co-operation and general assistance is relevant for controls a priori as well as for controls a posteriori (for example to verify the activities of a specific
data controller). The information exchanged may be
of a legal or factual character.

Article 17 – Forms of co-operation
138. According to Article 17, supervisory authorities
within the meaning of Article 15 shall co-operate with
one another to the extent necessary for the performance of their duties and the exercise of their powers.
Given that Article 17 circumscribes the co-operation
of supervisory authorities to what is necessary “for
the performance of their duties and exercise of their
powers” and the fact that the ability of a supervisory
authority to co-operate relies on the extent of its powers, the provision does not apply to the extent that a
Party makes use of Article 11, paragraph 3, entailing
a limitation of the powers of supervisory authorities
pursuant to Article 15, paragraph 2, litterae a. to d.
139. Co-operation may take various forms, some “hard”
forms, such as enforcement of data protection laws
through mutual assistance, in which the legality of
action of each supervisory authority is indispensable,

to some “soft” forms, such as awareness-raising, training, staff exchange.

the assistance of the diplomatic or consular agents of
their own country.

140. The catalogue of possible co-operation activities is not exhaustive. In the first place, supervisory
authorities shall provide each other with mutual assistance, especially by sharing any relevant and useful
information. This information could be of a two-fold
nature: “information and documentation on their law
and administrative practice relating to data protection” (which normally does not raise any issues, such
information could be exchanged freely and made
publicly available) as well as confidential information,
including personal data.

147. Paragraph 3 specifies that requests be as specific
as possible in order to expedite the procedure.

141. As far as personal data is concerned, such
data can be exchanged only if it is essential for the
co-operation, that is, if without its provision the
co-operation would be rendered ineffective, or if the
“data subject concerned has given explicit, specific,
free and informed consent”. In any case, the transfer
of personal data must comply with the provisions of
the Convention, and in particular Chapter II (see also
Article 20 providing for the grounds for refusal).

142. Further to the provision of relevant and useful
information, the goals of co-operation can be achieved
by co-ordinated investigations or interventions as
well as joint actions. For the applicable procedures,
supervisory authorities shall refer to the applicable
domestic legislation such as codes of administrative,
civil or criminal procedure, or supra or international
commitments by which their jurisdictions are bound,
for example, mutual legal assistance treaties, having
assessed their legal capacity to enter into a co-operation of that type.
143. Paragraph 3 refers to a network of supervisory
authorities, as a means to contribute to the rationalisation of the co-operation process and thus to
the efficiency of the protection of personal data. It
is important to note that the Convention refers to
“a network” in singular form. This does not prohibit
supervisory authorities originating from the Parties
to take part in other relevant networks.

Article 18 – Assistance to data subjects
144. Paragraph 1 ensures that data subjects, whether
in a Party to the Convention or in a third country
will be enabled to exercise their rights recognised in
Article 9 regardless of their place of residence or their
nationality.

145. According to paragraph 2, where the data subject resides in another Party he or she is given the
option to pursue his or her rights either directly in
the country where information relating to the data
subject concerned is processed, or indirectly, through
the intermediary of the designated authority.

146. Moreover, data subjects residing abroad may
also have the opportunity to pursue their rights with

Article 19 – Safeguards
148. This article ensures that supervisory authorities
shall be bound by the same obligation to observe
discretion and confidentiality towards data protection
authorities of other Parties and data subjects residing
abroad.
149. Assistance from a supervisory authority on behalf
of a data subject may only be given in response to a
request from this data subject. The authority must
have received a mandate from the data subject and
may not act autonomously in his or her name. This
provision is of fundamental importance for mutual
trust, on which mutual assistance is based.

Article 20 – Refusal of requests
150. This article states that Parties are bound to
comply with requests for co-operation and mutual
assistance. The grounds for refusal to comply are enumerated exhaustively.

151. The term “compliance” which is used in littera c.
should be understood in the broader sense as covering
not only the reply to the request, but also the action
preceding it. For example, a requested authority might
refuse action not only if transmission to the requesting authority of the information asked for might be
harmful for the rights and fundamental freedoms of
an individual, but also if the very fact of seeking the
information might prejudice his or her rights and
fundamental freedoms. Furthermore, a requested
authority may be required by applicable national
law to ensure that other public order interests are
protected (e.g. ensuring the confidentiality of a police
investigation). To this end a supervisory authority may
be obliged to omit certain information or documents
in its response to a request.

Article 21 – Costs and procedures
152. The provisions of this article are analogous to
those found in other international instruments.
153. With a view to not burdening the Convention
with a mass of implementing details, paragraph 3 of
this article provides that procedure, forms and language to be used can be agreed between the Parties
concerned. The text of this paragraph does not require
any formal procedures, but allows for administrative
arrangements, which may even be confined to specific
cases. Moreover, it is advisable that Parties leave to the
competent supervisory authorities the power to conclude such arrangements. The forms of co-operation
and assistance may also vary from case to case. It is
obvious that the transmission of a request for access to

Convention 108+ ► Page 31

sensitive medical information will have requirements
which differ from routine inquiries about entries in a
population record.

system of a State or international organisation with
the Convention if the State or organisation requires
the Committee to do so (Article 23 littera f.).

Chapter VI – Convention Committee

163. In providing such opinions on the level of compliance with the Convention, the Convention Committee
will work on the basis of a fair, transparent and public
procedure detailed in its Rules of Procedure.

154. The purpose of Articles 22, 23 and 24 is to
facilitate the effective application of the Convention
and, where necessary, to perfect it. The Convention
Committee constitutes another means of co-operation
of the Parties in giving effect to the data protection
laws implemented pursuant to the Convention.

155. A Convention Committee is composed of representatives of all Parties, from the national supervisory
authorities or from the government.
156. The nature of the Convention Committee and the
likely procedure followed could be similar to those set
up under the terms of other conventions concluded
in the framework of the Council of Europe.
157. Since the Convention addresses a constantly
evolving subject, it can be expected that questions will
arise both with regard to the practical application of
the Convention (Article 23, littera a.) and with regard
to its meaning (same article, littera d.).

164. Furthermore, the Convention Committee may
approve models of standardised safeguards for data
transfers (Article 23 littera g.).
165. Finally, the Convention Committee may help to
solve difficulties arising between Parties (Article 23 littera i.). Where disputes are concerned, the Convention
Committee will seek a settlement through negotiation
or any other amicable means.

Chapter VII – Amendments
Article 25 – Amendments
166. The Committee of Ministers, which adopted the
original text of this Convention, is also competent to
approve any amendments.

158. The Rules of Procedure of the Convention
Committee contain provisions regarding the right to
vote of the Parties and the modalities of the exercise of
this right, and are appended to the amending Protocol.

167. In accordance with paragraph 1, the initiative
for amendments may be taken by the Committee of
Ministers itself, by the Convention Committee or by
a Party (whether a member State of the Council of
Europe or not).

159. Any amendment to the Rules of Procedure is
subject to a two-thirds majority, with the exception
of amendments to the provisions on the right to vote
and corresponding modalities, to which Article 25 of
the Convention applies.

168. Any proposal for amendment that has not originated with the Convention Committee should be
submitted to it, in accordance with paragraph 3, for
an opinion.

160. Upon accession, the EU shall make a statement
clarifying the distribution of competences between the
EU and its member States as regards the protection of
personal data under the Convention. Subsequently, the
EU will inform the Secretary General of any substantial
modification in the distribution of competences.
161. According to Article 25, the Convention
Committee is entitled to propose amendments to
the Convention and examine other proposals for
amendment formulated by a Party or the Committee
of Ministers (Article 23 litterae b. and c).
162. In order to guarantee the implementation of the
data protection principles set by the Convention, the
Convention Committee will have a key role in assessing compliance with the Convention, either when
preparing an assessment of the level of data protection
provided by a candidate for accession (Article 23 littera
e.) or when periodically reviewing the implementation
of the Convention by the Parties (Article 23 littera
h.). The Convention Committee will also have the
power to assess the compliance of the data protection

Page 32 ► Convention 108+

169. In principle, any amendment shall enter into force
on the thirtieth day after all the Parties have informed
the Secretary General of the Council of Europe of
their acceptance thereof. However, the Committee of
Ministers may unanimously decide in certain circumstances, after consulting the Convention Committee,
that such amendments shall enter into force following
the expiry of a three-year time lapse, unless a Party
notifies the Secretary General of an objection. This
procedure, the purpose of which is to speed up the
entry into force of amendments while preserving the
principle of the consent of all the Parties, is intended
to apply to minor and technical amendments.

Chapter VIII – Final clauses
Article 26 – Entry into force
170. Since for the effectiveness of the Convention a
wide geographic scope is considered essential, paragraph 2 sets at five the number of ratifications by

member States of the Council of Europe necessary
for the entry into force.

171. The Convention is open for signature by the
European Union.18

Article 27 – Accession by non-member
States and international organisations
172. The Convention, which was originally developed
in close co-operation with the OECD and several nonEuropean States, is open to any State around the
globe complying with its provisions. The Convention
Committee is entrusted with the task of assessing
such compliance and preparing an opinion for the
Committee of Ministers relating to the level of data
protection of the candidate for accession.

173. Considering the frontierless nature of data flows,
accession by countries and international organisations from all over the world is sought. International
organisations that can accede to the Convention are
solely international organisations which are defined
as organisations governed by public international law.

Article 29 – Reservations
175. The rules contained in this Convention constitute
the most basic and essential elements for effective
data protection. For this reason, the Convention allows
no reservations to its provisions, which are, moreover,
reasonably flexible, having regard to the exceptions
and restrictions permitted under certain articles.

Article 30 – Denunciation
176. Any Party is allowed to denounce the Convention
at any time.

Article 31 – Notifications
177. These provisions are in conformity with the customary final clauses contained in other conventions
of the Council of Europe.

Article 28 – Territorial clause
174. The application of the Convention to remote territories under the jurisdiction of Parties or on whose
behalf a Party can make undertakings is of practical
importance in view of the use that is made of distant
countries for data processing operations either for
reasons of cost and manpower or in view of the utilisation of alternating night and daytime data processing
capability.

18. The amendments to the Convention approved by the
Committee of Ministers on 15 June 1999 lose their purpose
from the entry into force of the Protocol.

Convention 108+ ► Page 33

W

hile the core principles contained in Convention 108 of
1981 have stood the test of time and its generalist and
technologically-neutral approach constitutes an undeniable
strength, the Council of Europe considered necessary to
modernise its landmark instrument.

PREMS 085218

The modernisation of Convention 108 pursued two main
objectives: to deal with challenges resulting from the use of
new information and communication technologies and to
strengthen the Convention’s effective implementation.

ENG

www.coe.int

The Council of Europe is the continent’s leading human rights
organisation. It comprises 47 member states, 28 of which are
members of the European Union. All Council of Europe member
states have signed up to the European Convention on Human
Rights, a treaty designed to protect human rights, democracy and
the rule of law. The European Court of Human Rights oversees
the implementation of the Convention in the member states.

