Unofficial translation

Act No. 110/2019 Coll.
Act of 12 March 2019 on personal data processing
(Consolidated version of 24 April 2019)
Issue
Valid from
Effective from

47/2019
24 April 2019
24 April 2019

The Parliament has adopted the following Act of the Czech Republic:

PART ONE
PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING
TITLE I
BASIC PROVISIONS
Section 1
Subject Matter
This Act transposes the applicable regulations of the European Union1); simultaneously, it follows
on from directly applicable regulation of the European Union2) and, to satisfy the right of every
person to protection of privacy, provides for the rights and obligations in personal data
processing.
Section 2
Scope of the Act
This Act provides for the following:
(a) personal data processing pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council2);
(b) personal data processing by the competent authorities for the purpose of prevention,
investigation or detection of criminal offences, prosecution of criminal offences, execution of
criminal penalties and protective measures, ensuring security of the Czech Republic and
ensuring public policy and national security, including search for persons and objects;
(c) personal data processing in ensuring defence and security interests of the Czech Republic;
(d) other processing of personal data that form or are intended to form part of a filing system or
that are processed wholly or partly by automated means, other than personal data processing by
a natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activity; and
(e) the status and powers of the Office for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter the “Office”).
Section 3
Data Subject
Data subject shall mean a natural person to whom personal data are related.
TITLE II
PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING PURSUANT TO DIRECTLY APPLICABLE REGULATION
OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
Chapter 1
General Provisions
Section 4
Scope
(1) The provisions of this Title shall apply to personal data processing pursuant to Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
(2) The provisions of this Title and Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of

Unofficial translation

the Council shall also apply to processing of personal data that form or are intended to form part
of a filing system or that is wholly or partly carried out by automated means, other than personal
data processing by a natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activity;
(a) in the course of activities which fall outside the scope of Union law or the scope of Title III or
IV; or
(b) in the course of activities which fall within the scope of Chapter 2 of Title V of the Treaty on
the EU.
Section 5
Authorisation to Process Personal Data in Complying with Legal Obligation or Exercising
Competence
Controllers may process personal data where it is necessary for compliance
(a) with their legal obligation stipulated by law; or
(b) with a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller.
Section 6
Exemption from Compatibility of Purposes Assessment
(1) In ensuring a protected interest, controllers are not obliged to assess compatibility of
purposes other than for which personal data were collected before processing of personal data
for such other purpose, unless another legal regulation lays down otherwise and if this is
necessary and proportionate for compliance with
(a) an obligation imposed on the controller; or
(b) a task carried out in the public interest laid down by a legal regulation or in the exercise of
official authority vested in the controller.
(2) Protected interest pursuant to paragraph 1 above shall mean
(a) defence or security interests of the Czech Republic;
(b) public policy and national security, prevention, investigation or detection of criminal offences,
prosecution of criminal offences, execution of criminal penalties and protective measures,
ensuring security of the Czech Republic and ensuring public policy and national security,
including search for persons and objects;
(c) some other important objective of public interest of the European Union or of a Member State
of the European Union, in particular an important economic or financial interest of the European
Union or of a Member State of the European Union, including monetary, pecuniary, budgetary
and taxation matters, matters of financial market, public health and social security;
(d) protection of independence of courts and judges;
(e) prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for regulated
professions;
(f) a monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected to the exercise of official authority in
the cases referred to in subparagraphs (a) to (e) above;
(g) protection of rights and freedoms of persons; or (h) enforcement of civil law claims.
Section 7
Capacity of Child to Grant Consent to Personal Data Processing
A child shall enjoy capacity to grant consent to personal data processing in relation to an offer of
information society services addressed directly to the child from fifteen years of age.
Section 8
Obligation Regulated by Law to Provide Information on Processing
If the controller carries out personal data processing pursuant to Section 5 above and is obliged
to provide information to the data subject pursuant to Art. 13 or Art. 14 (1),(2) and (4) of

Unofficial translation

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the controller may
provide such information in a manner enabling remote access within a scope appropriate to the
personal data processing usually carried out by the controller.
Section 9
Communication by Means of Change to Initial Filing System
If the controller has the obligation to communicate to the recipient a rectification, restriction of
processing and/or erasure of personal data, it may do so by means of a change of the personal
data in the filing system provided that the controller regularly discloses its valid contents to the
recipient.
Section 10
Exemption from Assessment of Impact of Data Processing on Personal Data Protection
The controller need not carry out assessment of the impact of data processing on personal data
protection prior to commencement of personal data processing if it is required to carry out such
processing under a legal regulation.
Section 11
Limitation of Certain Rights and Obligations
(1) Unless another legal regulation lays down otherwise, Articles 12 to 22 and, as far as
relevant, also Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council shall apply mutatis mutandis or the compliance with the controller’s or processor’s
obligations or exercise of the data subject’s right laid down in those articles shall be postponed if
this is necessary and reasonable in terms of scope to ensure a protected interest set out in
Section 6 (2) above.
(2) The controller or processor shall notify the Office of the limitation of some rights or
obligations pursuant to paragraph 1 above without undue delay, specifying to a reasonable extent
the facts pursuant to Art. 23 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of
the Council; this shall not apply to courts carrying out personal data processing pursuant to Art.
55 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Section 12
Exemption from Obligation to Communicate Personal Data Breaches to Data Subject
If the controller is obliged to communicate personal data breaches to the data subject, it shall
postpone the communication or limit its scope if this is necessary and reasonable in terms of
scope to ensure a protected interest set out in Section 6 (2) above. Section 11 (2) shall apply
mutatis mutandis to the notification of the above procedure to the Office.
Section 13
Personal Data with Restricted Processing
If personal data processing has been restricted pursuant to Art. 18 (1) of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, this is without prejudice to the
obligation of the controller or processor to transfer or disclose such personal data if this obligation
is laid down by a legal regulation. Such data shall be marked in transfer or disclosure as data
specified in Art. 18 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council.
Section 14
Designation of Data Protection Officer
In addition to public authorities, authorities established by law that perform tasks laid down by law
in public interest also have the obligation to designate the data protection officer pursuant to Art
37 (1)(a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Section 15

Unofficial translation

Accreditation of Certification Bodies
Bodies authorised to issue personal data protection certification shall be accredited by an entity
authorised to exercise the competence of an accreditation body under the law governing
accreditation of bodies assessing conformity3).
Section 16
Personal Data Processing for Purposes of Scientific or Historical Research or for
Statistical Purposes
(1) In processing personal data for the purpose of scientific or historical research or for statistical
purposes, the controller or processor shall provide for compliance with specific measures for the
protection of interests of the data subject appropriate to the state of the art, costs of
implementation, nature, scope, context and purpose of processing, as well as risks to the rights
and freedoms of natural persons of varying likelihood and severity. Such measures may include,
in particular
(a) technical and organisational measures aimed at a consistent application of the obligation
pursuant to Art. 5 (1)(c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council;
(b) logging of at least all operations of collection, entering, alteration and erasure of personal
data, which will make it possible to determine and verify the identity of the person performing the
operation, and retaining such records for a period of at least 2 years from the operation;
(c) provision of information to persons who process personal data concerning obligations in the
area of personal data protection;
(d) designation of the data protection officer;
(e) special limitation of access to personal data at the controller or processor,
(f) pseudonymisation of personal data;
(g) encryption of personal data;
(h) measures for ensuring permanent confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of
processing systems and services;
(i) measures enabling restoration of the availability of and timely access to personal data in the
event of an incident;
(j) process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and
organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing.
(k) special limitation of transmission of personal data to a third country; or
(l) special limitation of personal data processing for some other purposes.
(2) If it allows for attaining the purpose set out in paragraph 1 above, the controller or processor
shall further process the personal data set out in Art. 9 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council in a form that does not permit identification of data
subjects unless this is prevented by legitimate interests of the data subject.
(3) Unless another legal regulation lays down otherwise, Articles 15, 16, 18 and 21 and, as far
as relevant, also Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council shall apply mutatis mutandis or the compliance with the controller’s or processor’s
obligations or exercise of the data subject’s right laid down in those articles shall be postponed if
this is necessary and reasonable in terms of scope to fulfilment of the purpose of the processing
set out in paragraph 1 above. Article 15 and, as far as relevant, also Article 5 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall not apply if the processing is
necessary for purposes of scientific research and the provision of such information would involve
disproportionate effort.

Unofficial translation

Chapter 2
Personal Data Processing for Journalistic Purposes or Purposes of Academic, Artistic or
Literary Expression
Section 17
Lawfulness of processing
(1) Personal data may also be processed if it serves appropriately for journalistic purposes or
the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression. In assessing appropriateness pursuant
to the first sentence, account shall be taken of whether the processing includes personal data set
out in Art. 9 (1) or Art. 10 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council.
(2) Personal data processing for the purposes set out in paragraph 1 above is not conditional on
authorisation or approval by the Office and enjoys the right to protection of the source and
contents of the information, including in case that the personal data are processed in a manner
enabling remote access.
Section 18
Exemptions from Controller’s Obligation to Provide Advice and Information
(1) In processing personal data for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1) above, the controller
may perform its obligations following from Art. 12 (1) and (2), Art. 13 (1) to (3) and Art. 21 (4) and,
as far as relevant, also from Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
of the Council, also by informing the data subject of the controller’s identity in any suitable
manner. Information on the controller’s identity may also be provided by virtue of suitable
declaration of association with the controller, which may be carried out by a graphic designation,
orally or by way of other appropriate means. Information on the controller’s identity is sufficient if
the advice provided by the controller concerning the rights of the data subject and other facts
necessary for protection of the rights of the data subject, within a scope appropriate to the
personal data processing usually performed by the controller, is publicly available in a manner
enabling remote access.
(2) Information on the controller’s identity need not be provided in justified cases, in particular if:
(a) it is impossible or it would involve disproportionate effort;
(b) the data subject can legitimately expect the processing set out in Section 17 (1);
(c) the data subject possesses the information; or
(d) provision of such information would endanger or frustrate the purpose of personal data
processing, if such a procedure is necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose of processing,
especially in matters of public interest.
Instead of excluding the provision of information on the controller’s identity, the controller may
postpone the provision of such information.
Section 19
Protection of Source and Contents of Information
(1) The obligation to provide information pursuant to Art. 14 (1) to (4) and Art. 21 (4) and, as far
as relevant, also Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council, as well as to provide information on other rights of the data subject, can also be
performed by publishing such information in a manner enabling remote access; in that case, it is
sufficient to provide information on the personal data processing usually performed by the
controller.
(2) The right to access to personal data pursuant to Art. 15 and, as far as relevant, pursuant to
Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall not apply

Unofficial translation

if the personal data concerned were not published by the controller and are processed only for
the purpose set out in Section 17 (1). In other cases, the controller may exclude access to
personal data in justified cases, especially if a legitimate purpose of personal data processing
would otherwise be endangered or frustrated or if the provision of access would involve
disproportionate effort.
(3) Art. 14 (2)(f) and Art. 15 (1)(g) and, as far as relevant, also Art. 5 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall not apply to personal data
processing for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1).
(4) If the controller is obliged to notify personal data breach pursuant to Art. 33 (1) or Art. 34 (1)
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, it need not notify
information enabling determination of the source or contents of the personal data whose security
was breached.
Section 20
Exemption from Rights to Rectification, Erasure and Restriction of Personal Data
Processing
(1) If the rights to erasure or rectification are exercised with respect to personal data processed
for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1), other legal regulations shall apply4).
(2) If personal data are processed for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1), the data subject
has the right to restriction of personal data processing pursuant to Art. 18 and, as far as relevant,
also pursuant to Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council only if the controller no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of processing but
the data subject requires the data for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. This
shall not apply if the above would involve disproportionate effort.
Section 21
Providing Information on Rectification, Erasure and Restriction of Processing
(1) If, in connection with personal data processing for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1)
performed also in a manner enabling remote access, the controller is obliged to communicate to
the recipients rectification, erasure or restriction of personal data processing pursuant to Art. 17
(2) or Art. 19 and, as far as relevant, also pursuant to Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council, it may perform this obligation also by specifying the time
of the last update of the contents in which the personal data are or were contained, or using
some other appropriate measure.
(2) Rectification, erasure or restriction of processing pursuant to Art. 19 and, as far as relevant,
also pursuant to Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council, shall be communicated to the party to which the controller transmitted personal data
processed for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1) if this is required for protection of the rights
or justified interests of the data subject and does not involve disproportionate effort.
(3) The controller may inform the data subject only about categories of recipients if, in
connection with personal data processing for the purposes set out in Section 17 (1), the provision
of information to the data subject on recipients pursuant to Art. 19 and, as far as relevant, also
pursuant to Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
involves disproportionate effort or if a legitimate purpose of processing would be endangered or
frustrated.
Section 22
Restriction of Right to Object
(1) The right to object pursuant to Art. 21 and, as far as relevant, also pursuant to Art. 5 of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, is available only with

Unofficial translation

regard to a specific disclosure or publishing of personal data processed for the purposes set out
in Section 17 (1); the data subject shall indicate specific reasons suggesting that a justified
interest in the protection of his or her rights and freedoms overrides the interest in such
disclosure or publishing.
(2) If an objection has been made pursuant to paragraph 1 above, the controller is obliged to
discontinue such disclosure or publishing if in its opinion the data subject has proven that the
justified interest in protection of his or her rights and freedoms overrides the interest in such
publishing. The controller shall inform the data subject without undue delay whether it has
complied with the data subject’s objection.
Section 23
Other Exemptions for Special Cases
(1) Sections 18 to 22 and Art. 12 to 19, 21, 33 and 34 and, as far as relevant, also pursuant to
Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall not apply,
shall apply mutatis mutandis or the compliance with the obligations of the controller or processor
or exercise of the right of the data subject laid down therein shall be postponed
(a) if such a procedure is necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose of processing set out in
Section 17 (1); and
(b) if such a procedure is not likely to result in a high risk for the justified interests of the data
subject.
(2) Chapter VII of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall
not apply in the processing set out in Section 17 (1). Art. 20, 22, 56 and 58 (1)(a),(b),(e) and (f)
and Art. 58 (2)(d),(f) and (g) and Chapters II, IV, V and IX of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council shall not apply, shall apply mutatis mutandis or the
compliance with the controller’s or processor’s obligations or exercise of the data subject’s right
laid down in those provisions shall be postponed if this is necessary to attain the purpose of
processing set out in Section 17 (1).
(3) If the exclusion or restriction of some rights or obligations pursuant to paragraph 2 above
would likely result in a high risk for the justified interests of the data subject, the controller or
processor shall without undue delay implement and document suitable measures to mitigate
these risks or any similar risk.
TITLE III
PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA IN THEIR PROCESSING FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PREVENTION, INVESTIGATION OR DETECTION OF CRIMINAL OFFENCES,
PROSECUTION OF CRIMINAL OFFENCES, EXECUTION OF CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND
PROTECTIVE MEASURES, ENSURING SECURITY OF THE CZECH REPUBLIC AND
ENSURING PUBLIC POLICY AND NATIONAL SECURITY
Section 24
General Provisions
(1) Unless laid down otherwise by law, this Title shall apply in personal data processing that is
necessary for performing the task and exercise of public powers by the controlling authority laid
down by other laws5) for the purpose of prevention, investigation or detection of criminal
offences, prosecution of criminal offences, execution of criminal penalties and protective
measures, ensuring security of the Czech Republic and ensuring public policy and national
security, including search for persons and objects.
(2) For the purposes of this title, Art. 4 (1) to (6), (8), (9), (12) to (15) and (26) of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Unofficial translation

(3) Controlling authority shall mean a public authority other than an intelligence service or
municipal police that is competent to perform the task set out in paragraph 1 above.
(4) This Title shall apply to processing of personal data that form or are intended to form part of
a filing system or to processing carried out wholly or partly by automated means.
Section 25
Principles Relating to Processing of Personal Data
(1) In personal data processing, the controlling authority shall
(a) determine a specific purpose of personal data processing in connection with performance of
the task set out in Section 24 (1);
(b) implement measures ensuring that personal data are accurate in relation to the nature and
purpose of the processing; and
(c) keep personal data in a form enabling identification of the data subject only for the period
necessary for achieving the purpose of their processing.
(2) Personal data may be processed for a purpose unrelated to the performance of a task set
out in Section 24 (1) only if the controlling authority is authorised to do so and the purpose
concerned is not incompatible with the set specific purpose of their processing.
Section 26
Categories of Data Subjects and Personal Data Quality
If possible, the controlling authority
(a) shall attach information to the personal data being processed on the status of the data
subject in criminal proceedings and, where appropriate, also information on final decisions of
prosecuting bodies relating to such data if this is justified by the purpose of their processing; and
(b) shall indicate any inaccurate personal data or personal data that are based on personal
evaluations.
Section 27
Information for Data Subject
The controlling authority shall publish, in a manner enabling remote access, information on
(a) its name and contact details;
(b) contact details of the data protection officer (hereinafter the “officer”);
(c) the purpose of personal data processing;
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the Office and the contact details of the Office; and
(e) the right of access to, rectification and erasure of personal data and restriction of their
processing.
Section 28
Right of Access to Personal Data
(1) At the data subject’s request, the controlling authority shall specify whether it processes
personal data relating to him or her. If the controlling authority processes such data, it shall
transmit them to the data subject and inform the data subject about
(a) the purpose of personal data processing;
(b) the main legal regulations under which it processes such data;
(c) the recipients or, where appropriate, categories of recipients;
(d) the anticipated storage period or a manner in which it is determined;
(e) the right to request rectification, restriction of processing or erasure of personal data; and
(f) the source of such data.
(2) The controlling authority shall not comply with the request pursuant to paragraph 1 above, or
comply only partly, if complying with the request would endanger
(a) performance of a task in the area of prevention, investigation and detection of criminal

Unofficial translation

offences, prosecution of criminal offences, execution of criminal penalties and protective
measures, ensuring security of the Czech Republic and ensuring public policy and national
security, including search for persons and objects;
(b) any proceedings concerning an infraction, disciplinary infraction or conduct having the
elements of infraction;
(c) protection of classified information; or
(d) justified interests of a third party.
(3) If any of the dangers listed in paragraph 2 above would arise by complying with the request
or communication of non-compliance with the request, including justification, the controlling
authority shall inform the data subject as well as those applicants whose personal data are not
processed by the controlling authority.
(4) The controlling authority shall keep records of the reasons for the procedure pursuant to
paragraphs 2 and 3 above and keep these records at least for a period of 3 years.
Section 29
Right to Rectification, Restriction of Processing or Erasure of Personal Data
(1) At request of the data subject, the controlling authority shall carry out rectification or
completion of personal data relating to the data subject. If required by the purpose of personal
data processing, the controlling authority may, instead of rectification, supplement the personal
data or attach to them an additional declaration.
(2) At request of the data subject, the controlling authority shall erase the personal data relating
to that data subject if the controlling authority has breached the principles of personal data
processing pursuant to Section 25 or some other legal regulation5) or the principles of processing
of some categories of personal data or if the controlling authority is obliged to erase such data.
(3) Instead of rectification or erasure of personal data, the controlling authority may restrict the
processing of personal data by specifically marking them
(a) if the data subject contests their accuracy without it being possible to ascertain whether the
data are accurate; or
(b) if such data must be kept for the purposes of taking of evidence.
(4) If personal data processing is restricted pursuant to paragraph 3(a) above, the controlling
authority shall inform the data subject prior to reversal of such a restriction; the controlling
authority shall also inform the data subject whether the restriction is to be reversed on the basis
of a decision of the Office or the competent court.
(5) The controlling authority shall not comply with the request pursuant to paragraphs 1 to 3
above, or comply only partly, if any of the dangers pursuant to Section 28 (2) would arise as a
result of complying with the request. If any of the dangers pursuant to Section 28 (2) would arise
through a communication of non-compliance with the request, including justification, the
controlling authority shall inform the applicant in such a way as to prevent such a danger.
(6) The controlling authority shall keep records of the reasons for the procedure pursuant to
paragraph 5 above and keep these records at least for a period of 3 years.
Section 30
Joint Provision on Data Subjects’ Requests
(1) The controlling authority shall process a request pursuant to Section 28 or 29 without undue
delay, not later than 60 days of the date of its lodging.
(2) If the controlling authority demonstrates that the request pursuant to Section 28 or 29 is
manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because it has been lodged repeatedly within a
short period of time in the same matter, the controlling authority need not comply with the

Unofficial translation

request.
(3) Within processing of the request pursuant to Section 28 or 29, the controlling authority shall
inform the data subject of the possibility to
(a) request verification of legality of the personal data processing through the Office, and shall
provide information on the contact details of the Office;
(b) lodge a complaint with the Office; and
(c) seek a judicial remedy.
(4) The controlling authority shall inform the data subject in writing about the processing of the
request pursuant to Section 28 or 29. Information on the processing of the request shall contain
reasoning, unless the request is complied with to the full extent. If the data subject is represented,
the controlling authority may request that the signature on the written power of attorney be
authenticated; authentication is not required if the power of attorney was granted before the
controlling authority.
(5) Paragraph 3(a) and (b) above shall not apply if the controlling authority is a court or the
Public Prosecutor’s Office.
Section 31
Instigation of Data Subject for Verification of Lawfulness of Personal Data Processing
(1) Based on an instigation of the data subject, the Office may verify lawfulness of personal data
processing.
(2) The Office need not comply with an instigation pursuant to paragraph 1 above especially
when it proves that the instigation is manifestly unfounded or excessive, for example because it
has been made repeatedly within a short period of time in the same matter.
(3) Within 4 months of the date of lodging the instigation for verification of lawfulness of personal
data processing, the Office shall inform the data subject as to whether or not it has verified
lawfulness of the processing; if the Office has not carried out the verification, it shall attach
information substantiating its procedure.
(4) The Office shall also inform the data subject of the possibility to seek a judicial remedy.
Section 32
General Obligations of Controlling Authority and Personal Data Protection by Design
(1) Taking account of the nature, scope, circumstances, purposes and risks of personal data
processing, the controlling authority shall take such technical and organisational measures as to
ensure and document compliance with its obligations in personal data protection.
(2) Taking account of the nature, scope, circumstances, purposes and risks of personal data
processing, state of the art and costs, the controlling authority shall take technical and
organisational measures with the objective of
(a) protecting personal data as efficiently as possible;
(b) limiting inappropriate personal data processing;
(c) limiting personal data processing that is not essential with regard to its scope, quantity of
data, storage period or availability of data;
(d) providing necessary safeguards for the rights of the data subject; and
(e) preventing automatic publication of personal data.
(3) The controlling authority shall document the measures taken pursuant to paragraph 1 and 2
above and retain the documentation during the period of personal data processing.
(4) The controlling authority shall keep written overviews of all typified activities of personal data
processing, which shall contain
(a) name and contact details of the controlling authority and the officer;

Unofficial translation

(b) purpose of personal data processing;
(c) categories of recipients or future recipients;
(d) categories of data subjects and categories of personal data;
(e) information on whether and how profiling is applied;
(f) categories of transmissions to third countries or international organisations;
(g) legal basis for the processing operations for which the personal data are intended;
(h) time limits for erasure or review of necessity of personal data categories; and
(i) general description of personal data security.
(5) If an incorrect transfer or transfer of inaccurate personal data occurs, the controlling authority
shall inform of this fact without undue delay the recipient of such data and the authority
competent to carry out the purpose set out in Section 24 (1), which is the originator of the data. If
the controlling authority has performed a rectification, completion, restriction of processing or
erasure of personal data, it shall advise also the recipient of the data about the necessity to take
this procedure.
Section 33
Jointly Controlling Authorities
If several controlling authorities jointly determine purposes and means of personal data
processing, they shall enter into a written agreement providing for the manner of performance of
the obligations under this Part and a point of contact for collection of data subjects’ requests,
unless laid down otherwise by the law.
Section 34
Processor
(1) Only a processor who is able to effectively ensure compliance with obligations in personal
data protection by taking the measures pursuant to Section 32 (1) shall be entrusted by the
controlling authority with personal data processing.
(2) If the processor’s mandate does not follow from a legal regulation, the controlling authority
shall enter into a written contract for personal data processing with the processor. Unless this
follows directly from a legal regulation, the contract shall determine, in particular, the following:
(a) subject-matter and duration of the personal data processing;
(b) nature and purpose of the personal data processing;
(c) type of personal data to be processed;
(d) categories of data subjects; and
(e) rights and obligations of the controlling authority.
(3) The contract for personal data processing shall further determine, unless this follows directly
from a legal regulation, that the processor
(a) shall act only on the instructions of the controlling authority;
(b) shall ensure that persons authorised to process the personal data have committed
themselves to confidentiality;
(c) shall assist the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations pursuant to this Title;
(d) upon completion of its activities shall transfer, on instruction of the controlling authority, the
personal data to the controlling authority or erase them, unless the law requires otherwise; and
(e) shall provide the controlling authority with information necessary for documenting compliance
with the obligations pursuant to subparagraphs (a) to (d) and paragraphs 1 and 2 above.
(4) The processor shall keep written overviews of all typified activities of personal data
processing, which shall contain
(a) name and contact details of the controlling authority, the processor and the officer;

Unofficial translation

(b) categories of personal data processing for the individual controlling authorities;
(c) information on transfer of personal data to specific third countries or international
organisations; and
(d) general description of personal data security.
(5) The processor shall without undue delay notify the controlling authority of any personal data
breach.
(6) The processor may mandate some other processor only with the prior written consent of the
controlling authority. If the consent of the controlling authority is granted generally for an
unspecified other processor, the processor with which the controlling authority entered into the
contract for personal data processing shall inform the controlling authority in advance of all
envisaged mandates of other processors. Paragraphs 1 to 3 above shall apply mutatis mutandis
to the relationship between the processor with which the controlling authority entered into the
contract for personal data processing and the other processor.
Section 35
Binding Nature of Controlling Authority’s Instructions
The processor or a natural person acting under the authority of the controlling authority or the
processor may process personal data only under the instructions of the controlling authority
unless laid down otherwise by the law.
Section 36
Automated Logging
(1) If the controlling authority performs automated personal data processing, it shall log at least
the operations of collection, entering, alteration, combining, consultation, transfer, disclosure and
erasure of personal data.
(2) Logs of operations of collecting, entering, consultation and disclosure pursuant to paragraph
1 above enable determination and verification of the reason and time of such operations, identity
of the person performing the operation and identity of the recipient unless the identity of the
aforementioned persons cannot be identified due to technical reasons.
(3) The logs pursuant to paragraph 1 above may be used only for the purposes of criminal
proceedings, verification of lawfulness of personal data processing, ensuring integrity of personal
data and ensuring performance of the tasks of the controlling authority or processor and
performance of obligations by the persons to whom access to personal data is provided.
(4) The records pursuant to paragraph 1 above shall be kept for a period of 3 years of erasure of
the personal data to which they pertain.
(5) The obligations of the controlling authority laid down in paragraphs 1 to 4 above shall apply
to the processors mutatis mutandis.
Section 37
Data Protection Impact Assessment
If a specific kind of envisaged personal data processing, considering its nature, scope,
circumstances or purpose, is likely to result in a high risk of unauthorised interference with the
rights and freedoms of the data subject, the controlling authority shall draw up an assessment of
impact of such processing on personal data protection, which shall contain at least the following:
(a) general description of the envisaged personal data processing and its operations;
(b) assessment of the risk of unauthorised interference with the rights and freedoms of data
subjects; and
(c) planned measures and appropriate safeguards to mitigate the risk pursuant to subparagraph
(b) above and compliance with the obligations pursuant to this Title.
Section 38

Unofficial translation

Consultation with the Office
(1) If an envisaged personal data processing is to give rise to new records, the controlling
authority shall lodge with the Office a request for consultation of the processing concerned, if
(a) high risk of unauthorised interference with the rights and freedoms of data subjects follows
from the assessment pursuant to Section 37; or
(b) the type of personal data processing concerned, taking into account the use of new
technologies or procedures, results in a high risk of interference with the rights and freedoms of
data subjects.
(2) The request pursuant to paragraph 1 above shall include the impact assessment pursuant to
Section 37; at request of the Office, the controlling authority shall provide also other related
information.
(3) The Office may issue a register of personal data processing operations in relation to which
the controlling authority is obliged to consult the Office. The controlling authority shall inform the
Office of any such processing.
(4) If the Office considers that the provisions of this Title or provisions of any other legal
regulation on personal data processing would be breached by the envisaged personal data
processing, it shall advise the controlling authority of this fact within 6 weeks of the date of
lodging the request pursuant to paragraph 1 above, or, where appropriate, exercise its other
powers. The Office may extend the above deadline by 1 month on grounds of complexity; the
Office shall inform the controlling authority of the extension within 1 month of the date of lodging
the request.
Section 39
Intervention Based on Automated Processing
The controlling authority may, on the basis of exclusively automated personal data processing,
interfere with the rights and legally protected interests of the data subject or cause the data
subject to face some other similarly serious consequence only if this is expressly laid down by
another law.
Section 40
Security of Personal Data Processing
(1) The controlling authority shall implement such organisational and technical measures as to
ensure a level of security of personal data appropriate to the nature, scope, circumstances,
purpose and risk of their processing.
(2) If personal data are processed by automated means, the controlling authority shall
implement necessary measures in order to
(a) secure the personal data against unauthorised access, transmission, alteration, destruction,
loss, theft, abuse or other unauthorised processing;
(b) ensure recoverability of the personal data;
(c) ensure the possibility to determine and verify the person who entered the personal data or to
whom they have been transferred or disclosed using data communication equipment;
(d) ensure security and reliability of the information system containing the personal data,
including reporting of errors; and
(e) prevent unauthorised access to the personal data carrier or equipment used for their
processing.
(3) The obligations of the controlling authority laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall apply
to the processors mutatis mutandis.
Section 41
Notification of Personal Data Breach to the Office

Unofficial translation

(1) The controlling authority shall notify without undue delay any personal data breach to the
Office unless the risk of unauthorised interference with the rights and freedoms of the data
subject is low.
(2) If the controlling authority gives the notification more than 72 hours after becoming aware of
the breach, it shall enclose reasoning of the delay.
(3) In the notification pursuant to paragraph 1 above, the controlling authority shall indicate at
least the following, as far as it possesses such information:
(a) description of the nature of the personal data breach;
(b) categories and approximate number of data subjects and personal data records concerned;
(c) name and contact details of the officer or some other workplace where more information on
the personal data breach can be obtained;
(d) description of the likely consequences of the personal data breach; and
(e) description of the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controlling authority to
remedy or mitigate the damage caused by the personal data breach.
(4) The controlling authority shall supplement any facts pursuant to paragraph 3 above that
were not known to the controlling authority at the time of the notification without undue delay after
becoming aware thereof.
(5) The controlling authority shall communicate the facts pursuant to paragraph 3 above also to
a person or authority of some other Member State of the European Union that provided or
obtained the personal data.
(6) The controlling authority shall document each case of personal data breach, its
consequences and remedial measures implemented and retain the documentation for at least 3
years.
Section 42
Communication of Personal Data Breach to the Data Subject
(1) The controlling authority shall communicate without undue delay any personal data breach
to the data subject if the ensuing risk of unauthorised interference with the rights and freedoms of
the data subject is high.
(2) In the communication, the controlling authority shall provide at least the data set out in
Section 41 (3)(a) and (c) to (e).
(3) If the communication to the data subject pursuant to paragraph 1 above involves
disproportionate effort, the controlling authority shall publish the communication by way of
appropriate means.
(4) The controlling authority is not obliged to communicate a personal data breach if
(a) the technical and organisational measures taken ensure that it is impossible to misuse the
personal data concerned; or
(b) subsequent measures of the controlling authority have significantly reduced the risk of
unauthorised interference with the rights and freedoms of the data subject.
(5) The Office may also decide that there is a high risk of unauthorised interference with the
rights and freedoms of the data subject or that the conditions pursuant to paragraph 4 above
have been met.
(6) The controlling authority shall not communicate a personal data breach, or communicate it
only partly if the communication would result in a danger pursuant to Section 28 (2).
TITLE IV
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION IN ENSURING DEFENCE AND SECURITY INTERESTS OF
THE CZECH REPUBLIC
Section 43

Unofficial translation

(1) Unless other legal regulations6) lay down otherwise, the provisions of this Title shall apply to
personal data processing for the purpose of ensuring defence and security interests of the Czech
Republic.
(2) For the purposes of this Title, Art. 4 (1), (2), (6) to (8), (9) and (11) of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(3) The controller may only process personal data with the consent of the relevant data subject.
Without such consent, the controller may process the personal data if
(a) processing is necessary for compliance with the controller’s obligation;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party
or for the purposes of negotiations aimed at entering into or amending a contract initiated by the
data subject;
(c) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject; in such a
case, consent of the data subject shall be obtained without undue delay, otherwise the controller
shall discontinue the processing and erase the data;
(d) processing concerns legitimately published personal data;
(e) processing is necessary for the protection of rights or legally protected interests of the
controller, recipient or other person concerned; however, such processing of personal data may
not be at variance with the right of the data subject to protection of his or her private and personal
life;
(f) provides personal data on a public person, official or employee of a public authority that reveal
his or her public or official activities, function or job; or
(g) processing is carried out solely for archiving purposes.
(4) Prior to granting his or her consent, the data subject shall be informed of the purpose of
processing and for what personal data is the consent being granted, to which controller and for
what period of time. The controller shall be able to demonstrate that the data subject has
consented to processing of his or her personal data throughout the entire term of the processing.
(5) The obligations laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4 above shall apply to the processors mutatis
mutandis.
Section 44
If the mandate does not follow from another legal regulation, the controller shall enter into a
contract for personal data processing with the processor. The contract shall be made in writing.
The contract shall explicitly specify in particular the scope, purpose and term of processing and
contain the processor’s warranties on taking of, and compliance with, technical and
organisational measures aimed at ensuring security and protection of personal data.
Section 45
Should the processor ascertain that the controller is in breach of obligations laid down by this Act
or another legal regulation6), the processor shall immediately notify the controller or such a fact
and discontinue personal data processing. Should the processor fail to do so, it shall be liable for
the resulting damage together with the controller jointly and severally.
Obligations of Persons in Securing Personal Data
Section 46
(1) The controller is obliged to take technical and organisational measures preventing unlawful
or accidental access to personal data, their alteration, destruction, loss, unauthorised
transmission or other unauthorised processing or abuse. This obligation shall survive
discontinuation of personal data processing.
(2) The controller is obliged to take technical and organisational measures aimed at protection of

Unofficial translation

personal data in accordance with this Act and other legal regulations. The controller shall
document the technical and organisational measures taken and retain the documentation during
the period of personal data processing.
(3) Within the measures pursuant to paragraph 1 above, the controller shall assess risks
associated with the following areas
(a) fulfilment of instructions for personal data processing by persons who have direct access to
personal data;
(b) preventing unauthorised persons from accessing personal data and means for their
processing;
(c) preventing unauthorised reading, creation, copying, transmission, alteration or deletion of
records containing personal data and
(d) measures for determining and verifying to whom the personal data were transferred.
(4) In automated personal data processing, the controller’s obligations under the measures
provided for in paragraph 1 above shall also include
(a) ensuring that the automated personal data processing system is used only by an authorised
natural person;
(b) ensuring that the authorised natural person only has access to personal data corresponding
to the scope of his or her authorisation based on special user rights established exclusively for
him or her;
(c) making of electronic records allowing tracing and verification of when, by whom and for what
reason the personal data were recorded or otherwise processed; and
(d) preventing unauthorised access to data carriers.
(5) The obligations laid down in paragraphs 1 to 4 above shall apply to the processors mutatis
mutandis.
Section 47
Employees of the controller or processor, other persons processing personal data based on a
contract with the controller or processor or persons who come into contact with personal data at
the controller or processor in exercise of their authorisation and performance of their obligations
following from law are obliged to maintain confidentiality of the personal data, as well as of the
organisational and technical measures the publication of which would endanger the security of
the personal data. The confidentiality obligation shall survive termination of employment or the
relevant work.
Section 48
Erasure of Personal Data
The controller or, on the controller’s instruction, the processor, is obliged to erase personal data
once the purpose for which the personal data were processed ceases to exist or based on a
request of the data subject pursuant to Section 49.
Section 49
Protection of Rights of Data Subjects
(1) Every data subject who believes that the controller or processor processes his or her
personal data at variance with the protection of private and personal life of the data subject or at
variance with this Title, especially where the personal data are inaccurate with regard to the
purpose of their processing, he or she may
(a) request explanation from the controller or processor; or
(b) request that the controller or processor remedy the state of affairs, in particular by means of
rectification, completion or erasure of the personal data.

Unofficial translation

(2) If the request of the data subject pursuant to paragraph 1(b) above is found justified, the
controller or the processor shall remedy the defective state of affairs without undue delay.
(3) Should the obligations imposed by law be breached at the controller or the processor during
personal data processing, the controller and the processor shall be liable for the resulting
damage jointly and severally.
(4) The controller is obliged to inform the recipient without undue delay of request of a data
subject pursuant to paragraph 1 above and on the rectification, completion or erasure of personal
data. The above shall not apply if informing the recipient is impossible or involves a
disproportionate effort.
TITLE V
OFFICE
Section 50
(1) The Office is the central administrative authority in the field of personal data protection within
the scope laid down by this Act, other legal regulations5), international treaties that form part of
the national laws, and directly applicable regulations of the European Union.
(2) The seat of the Office is in Prague.
Section 51
(1) Activities of the Office may only be interfered with on the basis of a law. In exercising its
competence in the area of personal data protection, the Office shall act independently and follow
only the legal regulations and directly applicable regulations of the European Union.
(2) Activities of the Office shall be paid for from a separate chapter of the State budget of the
Czech Republic.
(3) The Deputy Minister of the Interior for the Civil Service shall not be the superior service body
for the President of the Office. Decisions of the President of the Office concerning civil service
matters and decisions of a first-instance disciplinary committee established in the Office shall not
be subject to appeal.
President and Vice-president of the Office
Section 52
(1) The Office shall be headed by the President of the Office appointed and removed by the
President of the Republic on the proposal of the Senate. President of the Office shall be deemed
to be a member of the supervisory authority pursuant to Section 53 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
of the European Parliament and of the Council. President of the Office may permanently entrust
some of his or her tasks to the Vice-president of the Office. President of the Office shall be
deemed to be a service body pursuant to the Civil Service Act and shall be authorised to instruct
civil servants on the performance of the civil service.
(2) The term of office of the President of the Office shall be 5 years. President of the Office may
be appointed for 2 consecutive terms at maximum.
(3) President of the Office may only be appointed from among Czech citizens who
(a) enjoy full legal capacity;
(b) have reached at least 40 years of age;
(c) have clear criminal record, comply with the conditions laid down by other legal regulations7)
and their knowledge, experience and morals indicate that they will discharge the office properly;
and
(d) have obtained university education by completing a Master’s programme with specialisation
in law or informatics, are sufficiently fluent in English, German or French and have at least 5
years of experience in the area of protection of personal data or human rights and basic
freedoms; education in other fields is permissible for candidates with over 10 years of experience

Unofficial translation

in the above areas.
(4) For the purposes of this Act, clear criminal record shall mean lack of valid conviction of a
criminal offence related to personal data processing committed intentionally or by negligence.
(5) The discharge of office of the President of the Office is incompatible with the discharge of the
office of member of the Chamber of Deputies or Senate, judge, public prosecutor or any public
administration office or a membership in a political party or a political movement.
(6) President of the Office may not discharge another paid office, be in another employment
relationship or perform gainful activities except for management of his or her own property and
scientific, educational, literary, journalistic or artistic activities, unless such activities impair the
dignity of the Office or endanger the trust in its independence and impartiality.
(7) President of the Office may be removed if he or she no longer complies with any of the
conditions for appointment.
Section 53
(1) The Office shall have two Vice-presidents, who shall be elected and removed by the Senate
at the proposal of the President of the Office. Vice-president of the Office shall be a section
director. Vice-president of the Office shall be deemed to be a member of the supervisory authority
pursuant to Section 53 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council.
(2) Vice-president of the Office shall represent the President of the Office in his or her absence;
the order of precedence in representing the President shall be based on the order in which the
Vice-presidents of the Office were elected, including any immediately preceding term of office.
(3) Section 52 (2) to (7) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Section 54
Activities of the Office
(1) In relation to personal data processing pursuant to Title II, the Office
(a) shall perform audits pursuant to Art. 58 (1)(b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council in compliance with the inspection rules;
(b) may invite the controller to explain or remedy the state of affairs in procedure pursuant to Art.
58 (1)(d) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(c) shall notify the controller or processor that the intended personal data processing would
probably result in breach of their obligations;
(d) may determine the criteria or requirements pursuant to Art. 41 (3), Art. 42 (5) or Art. 43 (1)(b)
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council by means of a
Decree;
(e) may order a certification body to withdraw certification issued by the body pursuant to Art. 42
and 43 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(f) shall approve codes of conduct; if a code of conduct is at variance with Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Office shall refuse to approve it;
and
(g) shall publish standard contractual clauses adopted pursuant to Art. 28 (8) or Art. 46 (2)(d) of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council in a manner enabling
remote access.
(2) In relation to personal data processing pursuant to Title III other than personal data
processing carried out by courts and public prosecutors’ offices, the Office shall
(a) supervise compliance with obligations laid down by law in personal data processing;
(b) verify the lawfulness of personal data processing at instigation of data subject pursuant to

Unofficial translation

Section 31;
(c) accept instigations and complaints regarding a breach of obligations laid down by law in
personal data processing and provide information on the manner in which they were addressed;
(d) hear infractions and impose fines;
(e) provide consultations in the field of personal data protection;
(f) inform the public of the risks, rules, safeguards and rights in relation to personal data
processing;
(g) inform controllers and processors of their obligations in the area of personal data protection
and
(h) exercise other competences entrusted to the Office by this Act.
(3) Furthermore, the Office shall
(a) prepare and make available to the public annual reports on its activities;
(b) provide for the fulfilment of requirements following from international treaties binding on the
Czech Republic and from directly applicable regulations of the European Union;
(c) even without a request provide the Parliament with opinions on draft regulations governing
personal data processing;
(d) participate in the activities of the European Data Protection Board; co-operate with similar
authorities in other countries, with institutions of the European Union and with bodies of
international organisations operating in the area of personal data protection;
(4) The supervision over personal data processing carried out by courts or public prosecutors’
offices under Title III of this Act or by intelligence services, shall be governed by another legal
regulation8).
Section 55
Use of Information from Public Administration Information Systems
(1) In exercising its competence pursuant to this Act or another legal regulation, the Office shall
use the following data from the basic population register
(a) surname(s);
(b) name(s);
(c) address of residence and
(d) date of birth.
(2) In exercising its competence pursuant to this Act or another legal regulation, the Office shall
use the following data from the information system of population records
(a) name(s); surname(s); surname at birth, if applicable;
(b) date of birth;
(c) address of permanent residence, including former addresses of permanent residence;
(d) date of commencement of permanent residence or date of cancellation of permanent
residence or date of termination of permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic;
and
(e) birth identification number.
(3) In exercising its competence pursuant to this Act or another legal regulation, the Office shall
use the following data from the information system for foreign nationals
(a) name(s); surname(s); surname at birth, if applicable;
(b) date of birth;
(c) type of residence and address of residence;
(d) number and date of expiry of residence permit and
(e) date of commencement of residence; date of termination of residence, if applicable.

Unofficial translation

(4) Data kept as reference data in the basic population register shall be taken from the
information system for population records or the information system for foreign nationals only if
they are in a form preceding the current state.
(5) In each specific case, only the data necessary for carrying out a given task may be taken
from the accessible records.
Section 56
International Co-operation
(1) In the area of personal data protection under Title III, the Office shall provide assistance,
including investigation, checks and provision of information, to supervisory authorities of other
Member States of the European Union and states that apply regulations transposing Directive
(EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
(2) The Office shall respond to requests from supervisory authorities of other Member States of
the European Union or states that apply regulations transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the
European Parliament and of the Council under paragraph 1 above without undue delay, but not
later than 1 month of the receipt of the request, unless the Office is not authorised to provide
assistance or this would lead to violation of the law.
(3) The Office shall inform the requesting supervisory authority of the manner in which the
request was addressed pursuant to paragraph 2 above or of reasons for not addressing the
request.
(4) Assistance pursuant to paragraph 1 above shall be provided at the expense of the Office;
should addressing a request require unreasonable expenses, the Office shall postpone
addressing of the request until an agreement is reached with the requesting supervisory authority
on the manner of paying the expenses.
(5) If addressing a request of the Office abroad would require unreasonable expenses, the
request may be addressed at the expense of the Office, with its consent.
Section 57
Annual Report
(1) The Office’s annual report shall comprise, in particular, information on its supervisory
activities and their evaluation, information and evaluation of the situation in the area of personal
data processing and protection in the Czech Republic, and evaluation of other activities of the
Office, including supervision over processing under Title II of this Act.
(2) The President of the Office shall submit the annual report to the Parliament and the
Government within 3 months of the end of the budgetary year.
Section 58
Authorisation of the Office to Access Information
(1) The Office may become acquainted with all information necessary for the fulfilment of a
specific task. This also applies to information subject to a confidentiality obligation under another
legal regulation unless another legal regulation9) lays down other conditions for access to such
data by the Office.
(2) The Office may become acquainted with information subject to a confidentiality obligation
under the Legal Profession Act only in the presence and with the consent of a representative of
the Czech Bar Association (hereinafter the “Bar”) appointed by the President of the Bar from
among its employees or attorneys. Should the representative of the Bar refuse the consent, he or
she shall, at written request of the Office, ensure confidentiality and integrity of the data pursuant
to the first sentence and submit without delay to the Bar’s Supervisory Council the Office’s written
request for replacement of the consent of the Bar’s representative by a decision of the Bar’s
Supervisory Council. If the Bar’s Supervisory Council does not decide to replace the consent of

Unofficial translation

the Bar’s representative based on the Office’s request within 30 days of delivery of the request by
the Bar’s representative, the consent of the Bar’s representative may be replaced by a court
decision pursuant to the Special Court Proceedings Act at the Office’s request.
(3) The Office may become acquainted with information subject to a confidentiality obligation
pursuant to the Tax Consultancy Act and the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic
only in the presence and with the consent of a representative of the Chamber of Tax Advisors of
the Czech Republic appointed by the President of the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech
Republic from among its employees or tax advisors. Should the representative of the Chamber of
Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic refuse the consent, he or she shall, at written request of the
Office, ensure confidentiality and integrity of the data pursuant to the first sentence and submit
without delay to the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech
Republic the Office’s written request for replacement of the consent of the representative of the
Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic by a decision of the Supervisory Committee of
the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic. If the Supervisory Committee of the
Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic does not decide to replace the consent of the
representative of the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic based on the Office’s
request within 30 days of delivery of the request by the representative of the Chamber of Tax
Advisors of the Czech Republic, the consent of the representative of the Chamber of Tax
Advisors of the Czech Republic may be replaced by a court decision pursuant to the Special
Court Proceedings Act at the Office’s request.
(4) If the Office enables a person other than the person from which the relevant information has
been obtained to inspect files, it shall exclude from inspection of files information that constitutes
business secrets, banking secrets or other secrets protected by similar laws, information
protected by copyright and information pursuant to the second sentence of paragraph 1 or
paragraph 2 above. In proceedings on imposing of an obligation, the Office shall make available
to the party to the proceedings information excluded under the first sentence, if it has served or
will serve as evidence. Prior to disclosing the information, the party to the proceedings or its
representative must be advised on the manner in which the information is protected; a record
shall be drawn up on the advice. The authorisation to access such information shall not include
authorisation to make excerpts from or copies of the information.
(5) Paragraph 1 above shall in no way prejudice the obligation of the relevant inspector to prove
his or her authorisation to access classified information.
Section 59
Confidentiality Obligation of Employees of the Office
(1) The Vice-president and employees of the Office are obliged to maintain confidentiality of
personal data, in particular information pursuant to Section 58 (4), as well as organisational and
technical measures the publication of which would endanger the security of the personal data that
they learned in the discharge of the competences of the Office or in connection therewith. This
obligation shall survive termination of service or employment relationship.
(2) The confidentiality obligation pursuant to paragraph 1 above may not be invoked vis-à-vis
the Office. The confidentiality obligation pursuant to paragraph 1 above may be invoked vis-à-vis
prosecuting bodies or courts only if the confidentiality obligation could be invoked vis-à-vis a
prosecuting body or a court by the person on whom the confidentiality obligation was imposed by
law and from whom the information subject to the confidentiality obligation was obtained.
Personal data may only be disclosed to a data subject if such disclosure does not endanger a
protected interest provided for in Section 6 (2).

Unofficial translation

(3) The Vice-president and employees of the Office may be relieved from confidentiality
obligation by the President of the Office or a person authorised by the President.
Section 60
Measures to Remedy Shortcomings
In the event of breach of an obligation laid down by the Act or imposed on its basis in personal
data processing under Title II or III or under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council, the Office may impose a measure to remedy the determined
shortcomings and set a reasonable deadline for remedy.
TITLE VI
INFRACTIONS
Section 61
(1) A natural person, legal person or natural person operating a business commits an infraction
by breaching the ban on disclosure of personal data imposed by another legal regulation10).
(2) Infraction pursuant to paragraph 1 above may be subject to a fine of up to
(a) CZK 1,000,000; or
(b) CZK 5,000,000 if the infraction is committed through press, film, radio, television, publicly
accessible computer network or in some other similarly effective manner.
(3) The Office shall waive administrative punishment also with respect to entities set out in Art.
83 (7) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Section 62
(1) The controller or processor pursuant to Title II commits an infraction by
(a) breaching either of the obligations pursuant to Art. 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 to 49 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council or Title II;
(b) breaching either of the basic principles of personal data processing pursuant to Art. 5 to 7 or
9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(c) breaching either of the rights of data subjects pursuant to Art. 12 to 22 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council or Title II;
(d) failing to comply with an order or limitation on personal data processing or the suspension of
data flows imposed by the Office pursuant to Art. 58 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council; or
(e) failing to provide to the Office access to data, information and premises pursuant to Art. 58
(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
(2) A certification body commits an infraction by breaching either of the obligations pursuant to
Art. 42 and 43 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council or
Title II.
(3) Body monitoring compliance commits an infraction by breaching either of the obligations
pursuant to Art. 41 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council.
(4) The Office may waive administrative punishment also if it imposes measures pursuant to
Section 54 (1)(e) or Section 60.
(5) The Office shall waive administrative punishment also with respect to controllers and
processors set out in Art. 83 (7) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of
the Council.
Section 63
(1) Legal person commits an infraction during processing of personal data by
(a) failing to determine the purpose of personal data processing at variance with Section 25

Unofficial translation

(1)(a) or if the determined purpose of personal data processing is in breach of an obligation or in
excess of authorisation following from another law;
(b) failing to implement measures ensuring that personal data are accurate in relation to the
nature and purpose of their processing at variance with Section 25 (1)(b);
(c) keeping personal data longer than for the period necessary for achieving the purpose of their
processing at variance with Section 25 (1)(a);
(d) failing to provide to data subjects information within the scope or in the manner laid down by
the Act at variance with Section 27;
(e) failing to comply with a request of a data subject provided for in Section 28 (1) at variance
with Section 28 (2);
(f) failing to comply with a request of a data subject provided for in Section 29 (1) or (2) at
variance with Section 29 (5);
(g) failing to take technical and organisational measures or to keep records thereof at variance
with Section 32 (1) to (3);
(h) failing to keep written overviews of all typified activities of personal data processing at
variance with Section 32 (4);
(i) failing to make logs at variance with Section 36 (1);
(j) using the logs for another purpose at variance with Section 36 (3);
(k) failing to perform data protection impact assessment at variance with Section 37;
(l) failing to consult with the Office the envisaged personal data processing at variance with
Section 38 (1);
(m) interfering with the rights and legally protected interests of the data subject or causing the
data subject to face some other similarly serious consequence at variance with Section 39;
(n) failing to take organisational and technical measures to ensure adequate level of personal
data protection at variance with Section 40 (1);
(o) failing to take the necessary measures at variance with Section 40 (2);
(p) failing to notify the Office of a personal data breach at variance with Section 41 (1);
(q) failing to communicate personal data breach to the relevant data subject at variance with
Section 42 (1);
(r) failing to perform the imposed remedial measures by the deadline set by the Office;
(s) failing to comply with limitation on processing of special categories of personal data under
another legal regulation5);
(t) breaching the obligation to appoint the officer under another legal regulation5);
(u) failing to comply with the obligation to provide information on incorrect transfer or transfer of
inaccurate personal data pursuant to Section 32 (5) or under another legal regulation5);
(v) breaching any condition laid down by another legal regulation5) for transfer of personal data
to an international organisation or a state that does not apply regulations transposing Directive
(EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council; or
(w) breaching the obligation to verify the necessity for further processing or erase personal data
under another legal regulation5).
(2) A person commits an infraction during processing of personal data by
(a) failing to keep overviews of all typified activities of personal data processing at variance with
Section 34 (4);
(b) failing to notify the controlling authority of personal data breach at variance with Section 34
(5);
(c) failing to process personal data only according to instructions of the controlling authority or

Unofficial translation

based on law at variance with Section 35;
(d) failing to make logs at variance with Section 36 (1);
(e) using the logs for another purpose at variance with Section 36 (3);
(f) failing to take organisational and technical measures to ensure adequate level of personal
data protection at variance with Section 40 (1);
(g) failing to take the necessary measures at variance with Section 40 (2);
(h) failing to perform the imposed remedial measures by the deadline set by the Office;
(i) failing to comply with limitation on processing of special categories of personal data under
another legal regulation5);
(j) breaching the obligation to appoint the officer under another legal regulation5);
(k) failing to comply with the obligation to provide information on incorrect transfer or transfer of
inaccurate personal data pursuant to Section 32 (5) or under another legal regulation5);
(l) breaching any condition laid down by another legal regulation5) for transfer of personal data
to an international organisation or a state that does not apply regulations transposing Directive
(EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council; or
(m) breaching the obligation to verify the necessity for further processing or erase personal data
under another legal regulation5).
(3) Infraction pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 may be subject to a fine of up to CZK 10,000,000.
Section 64
(1) Infractions under this Act shall be heard by the Office.
(2) Fines shall be collected by the Office.
Section 65
Special Provisions on Discontinuation of Proceedings
Without initiating proceedings concerning an infraction pursuant to this Act and breach of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Office may also
discontinue proceedings by its resolution if it is clear, given the significance and degree of
violation of or danger to the protected interest affected, the manner of committing the act, its
consequences, the circumstances under which the act was committed, and given the conduct of
the accused after committing the offence, that the purpose of the proceedings on the infraction
has been achieved or could be achieved in another manner. Resolution on discontinuation
pursuant to the first sentence shall only be recorded in the file; in such a case, the provisions of
the Act on Liability for Infractions and Proceedings Concerning Infractions pertaining to notices of
discontinuation of proceedings shall not apply.
PART TWO
TRANSITORY, REPEALING AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Section 66
Transitory Provisions
(1) From the effective date of this Act until 31 December 2020, the Office shall only have 1 Vicepresident. A second Vice-president of the Office may be elected with effect from 1 January 2021
at the earliest.
(2) The person who is the acting President of the Office as of the effective date of this Act shall
complete his or her term of office pursuant to former legal regulations.
(3) The person who is the acting inspector of the Office as of the effective date of this Act shall
complete his or her term of office pursuant to former legal regulations. From the effective date of
this Act up until the end of his or her term of office, the Office’s inspector shall be an employee of
the Office authorised to carry out management and inspection activities under an employment

Unofficial translation

relationship concluded for a fixed term. The entitlement of the Office’s inspector to salary,
compensation of expenses and performances in kind shall be governed by the former legal
regulations.
(4) Information processed prior to the effective date of this Act in the register of personal data
processing pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on protection of personal data and amendment to
certain laws, shall be publicly accessible for a period of 18 months from the effective date of this
Act.
(5) Proceedings initiated pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., which have not been closed by a
final decision before the effective date of this Act shall be closed pursuant to Act No. 101/2000
Coll.
(6) From the effective date of this Act, the terms sensitive data or sensitive personal data used in
the former legal regulations shall mean personal data, which reveal racial or ethnic origin, political
opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data
processed for the purpose of unique identification of a natural person, data concerning health or
data concerning sex life, sexual orientation, and data relating to criminal convictions and offences
or related security measures.
(7) Consent granted by a data subject pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll. shall be deemed
consent pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
unless the manner of granting of the consent has been at variance with the Regulation.

Section 67
Repealing Provisions
The following are hereby repealed:
1. Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data and amendment to certain laws.
2. Act No. 177/2001 Coll., amending Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data
and amendment to certain laws, as amended by Act No. 227/2000 Coll. and Act No. 65/1965
Coll., the Labour Code, as amended.
3. Part Six of Act No. 450/2001 Coll., amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities (the
Municipal Order), as amended; Act No. 129/2000 Coll., on regions (the Regional Order), as
amended; Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the Capital City of Prague, as amended; Act No. 250/2000
Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, as amended by Act No. 320/2001 Coll.; Act No.
218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amendment to certain related laws (the Budgetary Rules),
as amended; and Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data and amendment to
certain laws, as amended.
4. Part Four of Act No. 107/2002 Coll., amending Act No. 140/1996 Coll., on access to the files
of the former State Security, and certain other laws.
5. Part Two of Act No. 310/2002 Coll., amending Act No. 148/1998 Coll., on the protection of
confidential facts and amendment to certain laws, as amended; Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the
protection of persona data and amendment to certain laws, as amended; Act No. 18/1997 Coll.,
on peaceful utilisation of nuclear energy and ionising radiation (the Atomic Act) and amending
and supplementing certain laws, as amended; Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on foreign trade in military
material and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business in trade (the Trade Act), as
amended; and Act No. 140/1961 Coll., the Criminal Code, as amended; Act No. 283/1993 Coll.,
on Public Prosecutor’s Office, as amended; and Act No. 42/1992, on arrangement of property
relations and settlement of property claims in co-operatives, as amended.

Unofficial translation

6. Part Nine of Act No. 517/2002 Coll., implementing certain measures in the system of central
governmental authorities and amending certain laws.
7. Part One of Act No. 439/2004 Coll., amending Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of
personal data and amendment to certain laws, as amended.
8. Part Four of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain services of the information society and
amendment to certain laws (the Act on Certain Services of Information Society).
9. Part Six of Act No. 626/2004 Coll., on amendment to certain laws in connection with the
implementation of a reform of public finances in terms of remuneration.
10. Part Forty of Act No. 413/2005 Coll., on amendment to laws with connection to adoption of
the Act on Protection of Classified Information and Security Qualification.
11. Part Eleven of Act No. 109/2006 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption of
the Act on Social Services.
12. Part Twenty of Act No. 264/2006 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption of
the Labour Code.
13. Part Thirty-six of Act No. 342/2006 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with
populations records and certain other laws.
14. Part Thirteen of Act No. 170/2007 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with Czech
Republic joining the Schengen Area.
15. Part Sixty-five of Act No. 41/2009 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption of
the Criminal Code.
16. Part Three of Act No. 52/2009 Coll., amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on criminal court
proceedings (the Criminal Code), as amended, and certain other laws.
17. Part Eighty-eight of Act No. 227/2009 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with
adoption of the Act on Basic Registries.
18. Part Sixty-five of Act No. 281/2009 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption
of the Tax Code.
19. Part Forty-six of Act No. 375/2011 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption
of the Act on Healthcare Services, Act on Specific Healthcare Services and Act on Medical
Emergency Service.
20. Part Four of Act No. 468/2011 Coll., amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic
communications and amendment to certain related laws (the Electronic Communications Act), as
amended, and certain other laws.
21. Part Twenty-nine of Act No. 64/2014 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with
adoption of the Inspection Rules.
22. Part Twenty-nine of Act No. 250/2014 Coll., on amendment to laws in connection with
adoption of the Civil Service Act.
23. Part Six of Act No. 301/2016 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption of the
Central Bank Account Registry Act.
24. Part Eighty-two of Act No. 183/2017 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with adoption
of the Act on Liability for Infractions and Proceedings Concerning Infractions and the Act on
Certain Infractions.
25. Government Regulation No. 277/2011 Coll., on the form identity card for inspectors of the
Office for Personal Data Protection.
Section 68
Effect
This Act enters into effect on the date of its publication.

Unofficial translation

Vondráček, signed
Zeman, signed
Babiš, signed
Footnotes
1)

Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.
2)
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
3)
Act No. 22/1997 Coll., on technical requirements for products and amendment and supplementation to certain laws,
as amended.
4)
Section 82 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., the Civil Code, as amended.
Section 10 et seq. of Act No. 46/2000 Coll., on the rights and obligations in publishing of periodical press and
amendment to certain other laws (the Press Act), as amended.
Section 35 et seq. of Act No. 231/2001 Coll., on operation of radio and television broadcasting and amendment to other
laws, as amended.
5)
E.g. Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 341/2011 Coll., on the
General Inspectorate of Security Forces and amendment to related laws, as amended; Act No. 300/2013 Coll., on the
Military Police and amendment to certain laws, as amended; Act No. 257/2000 Coll., on the Probation and Mediation
Service and amendment to Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on establishment of ministries and other central governmental
authorities of the Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 269/1994 Coll., on the Criminal Records, as amended; Act No.
555/1992 Coll., on the Prison Service and judicial guard of the Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on
criminal court proceedings (the Criminal Code), as amended; Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as amended; and Act No. 17/2012 Coll., on the Customs Administration of the Czech
Republic, as amended.
6)
E.g. Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on the intelligence services of the Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 154/1994 Coll.,
on the Security Intelligence Service of the Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 219/1999 Coll., on armed forces of the
Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on professional soldiers, as amended; Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on
defence of the Czech Republic, as amended; Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amendment to certain
laws (the Crisis Act), as amended; Act No. 241/2000 Coll., on economic measures in emergency situations and
amendment to certain related laws, as amended; Act No. 585/2004 Coll., on conscription and its ensuring (the Military
Service Act), as amended; Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on the Military Intelligence, as amended; Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on
protection of classified information and security qualification, as amended; Act No. 320/2015 Coll., on the Fire Rescue
Service of the Czech Republic and amendment to certain laws (the Fire Rescue Service Act), as amended; and Act No.
45/2016 Coll., on the service of military reservists, as amended.
7)
Act No. 451/1991 Coll., laying down some other requirements for discharge of certain offices in governmental
authorities and organisations of the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic, the Czech Republic and the Slovak
Republic, as amended.
8)
E.g. Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts and judges, as amended; Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on Public Prosecutor’s Office,
as amended; Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on the intelligence services of the Czech Republic, as amended.
9)
E.g. Section 16 of Act No. 89/1995 Coll., on the State statistical service, as amended.
10)
E.g. Section 8a, Section 8b (1) to (4) and Section 8c of Act No. 141/1961 Coll., Section 52 to 54 of Act No. 218/2003
Coll., on juvenile justice, as amended.

