Act No. 502 of 23 May 2018
This version has been translated for the Danish Ministry of Justice. The official version
was published in ‘Lovtidende’ (the Law Gazette) on 24 May 2018. Only the Danish
version of the text has legal validity.

Act on supplementary provisions to the regulation on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free
movement of such data (the Data Protection Act)1

WE MARGRETHE THE SECOND, by the Grace of God, Queen of Denmark make
known that: Folketinget (the Danish Parliament) has passed and We have granted Our
Royal Assent to the following Act:
Chapter I
General provisions
Part 1
Material scope of the Act
1.-(1) This Act supplements and implements Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (the
General Data Protection Regulation), see schedule 1 of this Act.
(2) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall apply to all processing of
personal data carried out, in full or in part, by the means of automatic data processing, and
to any other non-automatic processing of personal data that are or are intended to be
contained in a filing system. However, this Act and the General Data Protection Regulation
shall not apply in the cases mentioned in points b) - d) of Article 2(2) of the General Data
Protection Regulation and section 3 of this Act.
(3) Any rules governing the processing of personal data in other legislation that falls within
the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation regarding special rules for the
processing of personal data shall take precedence over the rules laid down in this Act.
2.-(1) Sections 6-8, section 10 and section 11(1) of this Act and points a) – c) of Article
5(1), Article 6, Article 7(3), first and second sentence, Articles 9 and 10 and Article 77(1)
of the General Data Protection Regulation shall also apply to the manual disclosure of
personal data to another administrative authority. In accordance with Part 10 of this Act,
the Data Protection Agency (Datatilsynet) monitors disclosure as referred to in the first
sentence of this subsection.
(2) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation further apply to the processing of
data concerning enterprises, etc., if this processing is carried out for credit information
agencies. The same provision shall apply to the processing of data concerning enterprises
comprised by section 26(1), para. 1).

(3) Part 4 of this Act shall also apply to the processing of data concerning enterprises, etc.,
in accordance with section 1(1).
(4) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall apply to any processing of
personal data in connection with video surveillance.
(5) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall apply to the data of deceased
persons for a period of 10 years following the death of the deceased.
(6) In consultation with the competent minister, the Minister of Justice may lay down rules
to the effect that the provisions of this Act and the General Data Protection Regulation
shall apply, in full or in part, to the data of deceased persons for a period longer or shorter
than that specified in subsection (5).
(7) In other cases than those mentioned in subsection (2), the Minister of Justice may lay
down rules to the effect that the provisions of this Act shall apply, in full or in part, to the
processing of data concerning enterprises, etc. that is performed for private persons or
entities.
(8) In other cases than those mentioned in subsection (3), the competent minister may lay
down rules to the effect that the provisions of this Act shall apply, in full or in part, to the
processing of data concerning enterprises, etc. that is performed on behalf of public
administrative authorities.
3.-(1) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply where this will
be contrary to Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights
and Fundamental Freedoms or Article 11 of the EU Charter on Fundamental Rights.
(2) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply to the processing
of data performed on behalf of or by the intelligence services of the police and the national
defence.
(3) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply to the processing
of data performed as part of the parliamentary work of the Danish Parliament (Folketinget).
(4) This Act and the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply to the processing
of data covered by the Act on information databases operated by the mass media.
(5) This Act and Chapters II-VII and IX of the General Data Protection Regulation shall
not apply to information databases that exclusively include already published periodicals
or sound and image programmes covered by paragraph 1 or 2 of section 1 of the Media
Liability Act, or parts thereof, provided the data are stored in the information database in
the original version published. However, the provisions of Articles 28 and 32 of the
General Data Protection Regulation shall apply.
(6) This Act and Chapters II-VII and IX of the General Data Protection Regulation shall
not apply to information databases that exclusively include already published texts, images
and sound programmes covered by paragraph 3 of section 1 of the Media Liability Act, or
parts thereof, provided the data are stored in the information database in the original

version published. However, the provisions of Articles 28 and 32 of the General Data
Protection Regulation shall apply.
(7) This Act and Chapters II-VII and IX of the General Data Protection Regulation shall
not apply to manual files of cuttings from published, printed articles exclusively processed
for journalistic purposes. However, the provisions of Articles 28 and 32 of the General
Data Protection Regulation shall apply.
(8) This Act and Chapters II-VII and IX of the General Data Protection Regulation shall
not apply to the processing of data that otherwise takes place exclusively for journalistic
purposes. However, the provisions of Articles 28 and 32 of the General Data Protection
Regulation shall apply. The first and second sentences shall also apply to the processing of
data for the sole purpose of artistic or literary expression.
(9) In consultation with the competent minister, the Minister of Justice may lay down rules
to the effect that personal data which are processed in specified IT systems and kept for
public administrative authorities, must be stored, in full or in part, exclusively in Denmark.
(10) The Minister of Defence may lay down rules to the effect that this Act and the
General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply, in full or in part, to the processing of
personal data by the Defence in connection with the international operations of the
Defence.
Part 2
Geographical scope of the Act
4.-(1) This Act and any rules issued by virtue of this Act shall apply to the processing of
personal data performed as part of activities carried out on behalf of a data controller or
data processor that is established in Denmark, regardless of whether the processing takes
place in the EU.
(2) This Act and any rules issued by virtue of this Act shall further apply to processing
carried out on behalf of Danish diplomatic representations.
(3) This Act and any rules issued by virtue of this Act shall apply to the processing of the
personal data of data subjects located in Denmark carried out by a data controller or data
processor that is not established in the EU, if the processing activities are related to:
1) offering goods or services to such data subjects who are in Denmark, regardless of
whether payment from the data subject is required; or
2) the monitoring of the behaviour of such data subjects insofar as their behaviour takes
place in Denmark.
Chapter II
Rules on processing of data
Part 3
Processing of data
5.-(1) Personal data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and
may not be further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes.

(2) To ascertain whether processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for
which the personal data were originally collected, see subsection 1, the data controller shall
according to Article 6(4) of the General Data Protection Regulation take into account
aspects such as:
1) any link between the purposes for which the personal data have been collected and the
purposes of the intended further processing;
2) the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular regarding the
relationship between data subjects and the controller;
3) the nature of the personal data, in particular whether special categories of personal data
are processed, see Article 9, or whether personal data related to criminal convictions and
offences are processed, see Article 10;
4) the possible consequences of the intended further processing for the data subjects; and
5) the existence of appropriate safeguards, which may include encryption or
pseudonymisation.
(3) Regardless of subsections (1) and (2), in consultation with the Minister of Justice and
within the scope of Article 23 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the competent
minister may lay down more detailed rules to the effect that public authorities may further
process personal data for another purpose than that for which they were originally
collected, irrespective of the compatibility of the purposes. The first sentence of this
subsection shall not apply to the processing of data pursuant to section 10. In respect of
health data and genetic data mentioned in Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection
Regulation that have been collected pursuant to section 7(3) of this Act or under Danish
healthcare legislation, the first sentence of this subsection shall only apply to the extent
that the purpose of the further use of these data is compatible with the purpose for which
these personal data were originally collected.
6.-(1) The processing of personal data may take place if at least one of the conditions of
points a) – f) of Article 6(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation is complied with.
(2) If point a) of Article 6(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation is applied in
connection with the offering of information society services direct to children, the
processing of personal data concerning a child is lawful, provided the child is no younger
than 13.
(3) If the child is under 13, the processing is only lawful if and to the extent that consent is
given or approved by the holder of parental responsibility for the child.
7.-(1) The prohibition against processing sensitive personal data covered by Article 9(1) of
the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply in cases where the conditions for
processing personal data laid down in points a), c), d), e) or f) of Article 9(2) of the
General Data Protection Regulation have been complied with.
(2) The processing of data covered by Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection
Regulation may take place if the processing is necessary for the purposes of meeting and
respecting the data controller’s or the data subject’s labour law obligations and specific
rights, see point b) of Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(3) The processing of data covered by Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection
Regulation may take place if the processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive
medicine, medical diagnosis, the provision of care or treatment, or the management of

medical and health care services, and where those data are processed by a health
professional subject under law to the obligation of professional secrecy, see point h) of
Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(4) The processing of data covered by Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection
Regulation may take place if the processing is necessary for reasons of substantial public
interest, see point g) of Article 9(2) of General Data Protection Regulation. The
supervisory authority shall give its authorisation for this purpose if the processing pursuant
to the first sentence of this subsection is not carried out on behalf of a public authority.
Authorisation given by virtue of the second sentence of this subsection may lay down more
detailed terms for the processing.
(5) In other cases than those mentioned in subsections (1) - (4), in consultation with the
Minister of Justice and within the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation, the
competent minister may lay down more detailed rules regarding the processing of personal
data covered by Article 1(9) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
8.-(1) No data about criminal offences may be processed on behalf of a public administrative authority, unless such processing is necessary for the performance of the tasks
of the authority.
(2) The data referred to in subsection (1) may not be disclosed to any third party.
Disclosure may, however, take place where:
1) the data subject has given explicit consent to such disclosure;
2) disclosure takes place for the purpose of safeguarding private or public interests which
clearly override the interests of secrecy, including the interests of the person to whom the
data relate;
3) disclosure is necessary for the performance of the activities of an authority or required
for a decision to be made by that authority; or
4) disclosure is necessary for the performance of tasks for a public authority by a person or
an enterprise.
(3) Private individuals or entities may process data about criminal offences if the data
subject has given explicit consent. Processing may also take place if necessary for the
purpose of safeguarding a legitimate interest and this interest clearly overrides the interests
of the data subject.
(4) The data mentioned in subsection (3) may not be disclosed without the explicit consent
of the data subject. However, disclosure may take place without consent for the purpose of
safeguarding public or private interests, including the interests of the person concerned,
which clearly override the interests of secrecy.
(5) The processing of data in the cases regulated by subsections (1) - (4) may otherwise
take place if the conditions laid down in section 7 are satisfied.
9.-(1) Data covered by Article 9(1) and Article 10 of the General Data Protection
Regulation may be processed where the processing is carried out for the sole purpose of
operating legal information systems of significant public importance and the processing is
necessary for operating such systems.
(2) Data covered by subsection (1) may not subsequently be processed for any other
purpose. The same shall apply to the processing of other data carried out solely for the

purpose of operating legal information systems according to Article 6 of the General Data
Protection Regulation.
(3) The supervisory authority may lay down specific conditions concerning the processing
operations mentioned in subsection (1). The same shall apply to the data mentioned in
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation processed solely in connection with
the operation of legal information systems.
10.-(1) Data as mentioned in Article 9(1) and Article 10 of the General Data Protection
Regulation may be processed where the processing takes place for the sole purpose of
carrying out statistical or scientific studies of significant importance to society and where
such processing is necessary in order to carry out these studies.
(2) The data covered by subsection (1) may not subsequently be processed for other than
scientific or statistical purposes. The same shall apply to processing of other data carried
out solely for statistical or scientific purposes under Article 6 of the General Data
Protection Regulation.
(3) The data covered by subsections (1) and (2) may only be disclosed to a third party with
prior authorisation from the supervisory authority when such disclosure:
1) is made for the purpose of processing outside the territorial scope of the General Data
Protection Regulation, see Article 3 of the General Data Protection Regulation;
2) relates to biological material; or
3) is made for the purpose of publication in a recognised scientific journal or similar.
(4) The supervisory authority may lay down general terms for the disclosure of data
covered by subsections (1) and (2), including for disclosure that does not require
authorisation under subsection (3). The supervisory authority may further lay down more
detailed terms for the disclosure of data under subsection (3).
(5) Irrespective of subsection (2), in consultation with the Minister of Justice, the Minister
of Health may lay down rules to the effect that data covered by subsections (1) and (2)
which have been processed for the purpose of carrying out statistical and scientific healthcare studies may subsequently be processed for other than scientific or statistical purposes
where such processing is necessary for safeguarding the vital interests of the data subject.
11.-(1) Public authorities may process data concerning identification numbers with a view
to unique identification or as file numbers.
(2) Private individuals and entities may process data concerning identification numbers
where:
1) this follows from the law; or
2) the data subject has given consent in accordance with Article 7 of the General Data
Protection Regulation; or
3) the processing is carried out solely for scientific or statistical purposes or if it is a matter
of disclosing an identification number where such disclosure is a natural element of the
ordinary operation of enterprises etc. of the type in question and the disclosure is of
decisive importance for unique identification of the data subject, or the disclosure is
demanded by a public authority; or
4) the conditions laid down in section 7 are satisfied.

(3) Irrespective of the provision laid down in paragraph 3 of subsection (2), an
identification number may not be made public unless consent has been given in accordance
with Article 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
12.-(1) The processing of personal data in an employment context as covered by Article
6(1) and Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation may take place where the
processing is necessary for the purpose of observing and respecting the employment law
obligations and rights of the controller or of the data subject as laid down by other law or
collective agreements.
(2) The processing of data as mentioned in subsection (1) may also take place where the
processing is necessary to enable the data controller or a third party to pursue a legitimate
interest that arises from other law or collective agreements, provided the interests or
fundamental rights or freedoms of the data subject are not overridden.
(3) The processing of personal data in an employment context may take place on the basis
of consent given by the data subject in accordance with Article 7 of the General Data
Protection Regulation.
13.-(1) An enterprise may not disclose data concerning a consumer to another enterprise
for the purpose of direct marketing or use such data on behalf of another enterprise for this
purpose unless the consumer has given explicit consent. Consent shall be obtained in
accordance with the rules laid down in section 10 of the Danish Marketing Practices Act.
(2) However, the disclosure and use of data as mentioned in subsection (1) may take place
without consent in the case of general data on customers which form the basis for
classification into customer categories, and if the conditions of point f) of Article 6(1) of
the General Data Protection Regulation are complied with.
(3) Data of the type mentioned in Article 9(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation or
section 8 of this Act may not be disclosed or used pursuant to subsection (2).
(4) Before an enterprise discloses data concerning a consumer to another enterprise for the
purpose of direct marketing, or uses the data on behalf of another enterprise for this
purpose, it must check in the CPR register whether the consumer has filed a statement to
the effect that he does not want to be contacted for the purpose of marketing activities.
(5) Data controllers who sell lists of groups of persons for direct marketing purposes or
who print addresses or distributes messages to such groups on behalf of a third party may
only process:
1) data concerning name, address, position, occupation, e-mail address, telephone and fax
number;
2) data contained in trade registers which according to law or provisions laid down by law
are intended for public information; and
3) other data if the data subject has given explicit consent.
(6) Consent as required by subsection (5) must be obtained in accordance with section 10
of the Danish Marketing Practices Act.
(7) The processing of data as mentioned in subsection (5) may not, however, include data
as mentioned in Article 9(1) of the General Data Processing Regulation or section 8 of this
Act.

(8) The Minister of Justice may lay down further restrictions of the access to disclose or
use certain types of data according to subsection (2).
(9) The Minister of Justice may lay down further restrictions than those referred to in
subsection (7) on the access to process certain types of data.
14. Data covered by this Act may be transferred to be archived under the rules laid down
in the legislation on archives.

Part 4
Disclosure to credit information agencies of data on debts to public authorities
15.-(1) Data concerning debts to public authorities may be disclosed to credit information
agencies according to the provisions laid down in this Part of the Act.
(2) Data of the character referred to in Article 9(1) or Article 10 of the General Data
Protection Regulation may not be disclosed to credit information agencies.
(3) Confidential data that are disclosed according to the rules of this Part of the Act shall
not be considered accessible to the general public as a consequence of the disclosure.
16.-(1) Data concerning debts to public authorities may be disclosed to a credit information
agency where
1) it follows from laws or provisions laid down according to law or
2) the total amount of debt is due and payable and in excess of DKK 7,500, whereas this
amount may not include debts covered by an agreement for extension of the time for
payment or payment by instalments that is observed, however see subsection (2) and (3)
below.
(2) It is a requirement for disclosure under subsection (1)(2) that the total debt is
administered by the same debt collection authority.
(3) It is a further requirement for disclosure under subsection (1)(2) that
1) the debt can be recovered by distraint and that two reminders of payment have been sent
to the debtor,
2) execution has been levied or attempted to be levied in respect of the claim,
3) the claim has been established by a final and conclusive judgment or
4) the public authority has obtained the debtor’s written acknowledgement of the overdue
debt.
17.-(1) The public authority must give the debtor notice in writing before such data are
disclosed. The disclosure may not take place earlier than four weeks after this notice has
been given.
(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1) must include information stating
1) what data the authority intends to disclose,
2) the credit information agency to which the disclosure will take place,
3) when the disclosure will be carried through and

4) pointing out that disclosure will not take place if payment of the debt is effected before
the disclosure, or if an extension of the time for payment is granted or an agreement on
payment by instalments is concluded and observed.
18.-(1) The competent minister may lay down more detailed rules on the procedure in
relation to disclosure of data to credit information agencies concerning debts to public
authorities and may in that connection lay down rules to the effect that data concerning
certain forms of debt to public authorities may not be disclosed or may only be disclosed if
further requirements than those set out in section 16 are satisfied.
Part 5
Credit information agencies
19. A person who wishes to carry on business involving the processing of data for
assessment of financial standing and creditworthiness for the purpose of disclosure of such
data (credit information agency) must obtain authorisation to do so from the Data Protection Agency prior to commencing such processing as set out in section 26(1), para. 2).
20.-(1) Credit information agencies may only process data which by their nature are of
importance for the assessment of financial standing and creditworthiness.
(2) Credit information agencies may not process such data as those referred to in Article
9(1) or Article 10 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(3) Personal data concerning conditions that indicate lack of creditworthiness and are more
than five years old may not be processed unless in the particular case it is evident that the
conditions are of decisive importance for the assessment of the data subject’s financial
standing and creditworthiness.
(4) Articles 12 – 19 of the General Data Protection Regulation must be observed in the
processing of data concerning enterprises etc. in case such data are processed for credit
information agencies.
21.-(1) Data concerning financial standing and creditworthiness may only be disclosed to
subscribers in writing. The credit information agency may, however, provide summary
data verbally or in a similar manner in case the inquirer’s name and address are recorded
and stored for at least six months.
(2) Publications issued by credit information agencies may only contain data in a summary
form and only be distributed to persons or enterprises that are subscribers to notices from
the agency. The publications may not contain data concerning the civil registry numbers of
the data subjects.
(3) Summary data concerning indebtedness may only be disclosed if such data originate
from the Danish Official Gazette, have been reported by a public authority under the rules
laid down in Part 4 above or are concerned with indebtedness to the same creditor
exceeding DKK 1,000 and the creditor has either obtained the data subject’s written
acknowledgement of an overdue debt or legal proceedings have been initiated against the
debtor. Information about a finally approved debt rescheduling scheme may, however, not
be disclosed. The rules referred to in the first and second sentences shall moreover apply to

the disclosure of summary data concerning indebtedness in connection with the preparation
of broader credit assessments.
(4) Disclosure of summary data concerning the indebtedness of individuals may only take
place in such a manner that the data cannot form the basis of assessment of the financial
standing and creditworthiness of other persons than the individuals concerned.
Chapter III
The rights of data subjects
Part 6
Restrictions of the rights of data subjects
22.-(1) The provisions of Article 13(1) – (3), Article 14(1) – (4), Article 15 and Article 34
of the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply if the data subject’s interest in
this information is found to be overridden by essential considerations of private interests,
including the consideration for the data subject himself.
(2) Derogations from Article 13(1) – (3), Article 14(1) – (4), Article 15 and Article 34 of
the General Data Protection Regulation may also be allowed if the data subject’s interest in
obtaining this information is found to be overridden by essential considerations of public
interests, including in particular:
1) national security;
2) the defence;
3) public security;
4) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the
enforcement of criminal penalties, including the safeguarding against and the prevention of
threats to public security;
5) other important objectives related to the protection of the general public interest of the
European Union or of a Member State, in particular important economic or financial
interests of the European Union or of a Member State, including monetary, budgetary and
taxation matters, public health and social security;
6) the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;
7) the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for
regulated professions;
8) monitoring, inspection or regulatory functions including functions of a temporary nature
related to the exercise of public authority in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1) – 5) and
7);
9) the protection of the rights and freedoms of the data subject or of others;
10) the enforcement of civil law claims.
(3) Data which are processed on behalf of a public administrative authority in the course of
its administrative procedures may be exempted from the right of access under Article 15(1)
of the General Data Protection Regulation to the same extent as under the rules of sections
19 - 29 and section 35 of the Open Administration Act.
(4) Articles 13 - 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply to personal
data processed on behalf of the courts when the courts are acting in their judicial capacity.

(5) Articles 15, 16, 18 and 21 of the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply if
the processing of data takes place exclusively for scientific or statistical purposes.
(6) Article 34 of the General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply where the supply
of such information to data subjects may specifically be assumed to impede the investigation of criminal offences. Any decision to apply the first sentence of this subsection
may be made only by the police.
23. The obligation to provide information under Article 13(3) and Article 14(4) of the
General Data Protection Regulation shall not apply in cases where public authorities
further process personal data for another purpose than the purpose for which they were
collected, and the further processing takes place on the basis of rules laid down under
section 5(3) of this Act. The first sentence of this subsection shall not apply when the
further processing takes place for the alignment or combination of personal data for control
purposes.
Chapter IV
Provisions supplementary to Chapter IV of the General Data Protection Regulation
Part 7
Duty of confidentiality for data protection officers
24. Data protection officers designated under points b) and c) of Article 37(1) of the
General Data Protection Regulation may not without justification disclose or exploit data
into which they have obtained insight in connection with the exercise of their duties as data
protection officers.
Part 8
Accreditation of certification bodies
25. The Data Protection Agency and the national accreditation body appointed in
conformity with Regulation (EC) no. 765/2008 of 9 July 2008 of the European Parliament
and of the Council setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance
relating to the marketing of products and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) no. 339/93,
have powers to grant accreditation to certification bodies under the provisions of points a)
and b) of Article 43(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Chapter V
Processing authorisation

Part 9
Authorisation to process data
26.-(1) Before a data processor initiates processing to be carried out for a private data
controller, authorisation has to be obtained from the Data Protection Agency where

1) the processing of data is carried out for the purpose of warning others against having
business relations or accepting employment with a data subject,
2) the processing is carried out for the purpose of commercial disclosure of data for the
assessment of financial standing and creditworthiness or
3) the processing is carried out exclusively for the purpose of operating legal information
systems.
(2) The Minister of Justice may lay down rules on exemptions from the provisions of
subsection (1) above.
(3) The Minister of Justice may lay down rules to the effect that before the initiation of
processing other than the processing referred to in subsection (1) above, authorisation has
to be obtained from the Data Protection Agency, including for processing carried out for a
public authority.
(4) In connection with its grant of authorisation under subsection (1) or (3) above, the Data
Protection Agency may establish requirements for the way data are processed to protect the
privacy of the data subjects.
(5) Before the introduction of alterations to the processing referred to in subsection (1) or
(3), authorisation from the Data Protection Agency must be obtained again in case the
alterations are substantial.
Chapter VI
Independent supervision authorities

Part 10
The Data Protection Agency
27.-(1) The Data Protection Agency, which consists of a Council and a Secretariat, is
responsible in conformity with Chapters VI and VII of the General Data Protection
Regulation for monitoring any processing operation covered by this Act, the General Data
Protection Regulation and other legislation that falls within the scope of the Regulation’s
special rules on the processing of personal data. See however Part 11 of this Act. The Data
Protection Agency shall carry out its functions with complete independence.
(2) The day-to-day business of the Data Protection Agency shall be dealt with by the
Secretariat headed by a Director.
(3) The Minister of Justice shall appoint the Data Protection Council, consisting of a
chairman who must be a high court judge or supreme court judge, and of seven additional
members. The Minister for Industry and Business and the Minister for Public Innovation
shall appoint one member each out of the seven additional members referred to in the first
sentence. The Minister of Justice may appoint substitutes to five members, and the
Minister for Industry and Business and the Minister for Public Innovation may appoint one
substitute each. The chairman, the members and their substitutes shall be appointed for a
term of four years. Reappointment may take place two times. The appointment of the
chairman, the members and their substitutes shall be based on their professional
qualifications.

(4) The Council shall determine its own rules of procedure and the specific rules governing
the distribution of work between the Council and the Secretariat.
(5) The appointment of the chairman, members and substitutes to the members is
conditional upon their having obtained security clearance and their security clearance
being maintained throughout the entire term of their service.
(6) The office as chairman, member or substitute shall expire at the end of the period of
service or upon voluntary resignation.
(7) The chairman and members and their substitutes may solely be dismissed in case of
serious professional misconduct or if they no longer meet the requirements for performing
their duties.
(8) The staff of the Secretariat and the chairman of the Data Protection Council and its
members and their substitutes may only have sideline activity to the extent that it is
compatible with the exercise of the duties of their position or office.
(9) The Data Protection Agency represents the supervisory authorities of the European
Data Protection Council in accordance with Chapter VII, Sections 1 and 2 of the General
Data Protection Regulation.
28. The opinion of the Data Protection Council shall be obtained when Bills, Executive
Orders, Circulars or similar general regulations of importance for the protection of privacy
in connection with the processing of personal data are being drafted.
29.-(1) The Data Protection Council may demand being given all information of
importance for its activities, including for the decision of whether a particular matter falls
within the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and this Act.
(2) The members and staff of the Data Protection Agency shall at any time against
appropriate proof of identity and without any court warrant have access to all premises
from where a personal data processing operation is carried out. If required, the police must
provide assistance with securing such access.
30.-(1) The decisions of the Data Protection Agency may not be brought before any other
administrative authority.
(2) The Data Protection Agency may bring issues concerned with infringement of this Act
and the General Data Protection Regulation before the court to be considered under the
rules of the administration of civil justice.
31. If a decision has not been adopted concerning the adequacy of the level of protection
under Article 45 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Agency
may in exceptional cases prohibit, restrict, or suspend the transfer to a third country or an
international organisation of special categories of data comprised by Article 9(1) of the
General Data Protection Regulation.
32.-(1) The Data Protection Agency may ensure that a data processing operation that takes
place in Denmark is lawful even if the processing in question is subject to the legislation of
another Member State. The provision of section 29 above shall also apply.

(2) The Data Protection Agency may disclose information to supervisory authorities of
other Member States to the extent that it is necessary in order to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this Act, the General Data Protection Regulation or the data protection
legislation of the Member State in question.
33. The Data Protection Agency may publish its statements and decisions. Such
publication shall be subject to the provision in section 22 of this Act.
34. The Data Protection Agency and the Danish Court Administration shall cooperate to
the extent required to fulfil their obligations, particularly through the exchange of all
relevant information.
35. The Minister of Justice may lay down specific rules to the effect that the Data
Protection Agency and the Court Administration will have wider powers than those set out
in Article 58(1), (2) and (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
36.-(1) The Data Protection Agency may order that applications for authorisation under
this Act and amendments to this Act may be or must be submitted in a specifically
indicated manner.
(2) The Minister of Justice may, under the provisions of this Act, lay down rules on the
payment of fees for the submission of applications for authorisation and amendments to
authorisations, including rules on the amount of such fees, and set the requirement that no
authorisation will be granted until payment for it has been effected.
(3) The Minister of Justice may lay down rules on the payment of fees according to Article
57(4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(4) The Minister of Justice may lay down rules prescribing that communication to the Data
Protection Agency concerning the General Data Protection Regulation and this Act must
be transmitted by digital means. The Minister of Justice may in that connection lay down
specific rules on digital communication, including the use of specified IT systems, special
digital formats and digital signatures, etc. The Minister of Justice may moreover lay down
specific rules on the rejection of communications that have not been transmitted in a digital
format and on exemptions from such rules. Finally, the Minister of Justice may lay down
rules to specify when a digital message will be considered to have been received.

Part 11
Supervision of the courts
37.-(1) The Court Administration shall carry out supervision in accordance with Chapters
VI and VII of the General Data Protection Regulation of the processing of data carried out
for the courts when they do not act in their capacity of courts.
(2) In respect of other processing of data, the decision must be made by the relevant court.
An interlocutory appeal against the decision may be lodged with a higher court. For special
courts or tribunals whose decisions cannot be brought before a higher court, an interlocutory appeal against the decision referred to in the first sentence of this subsection may
be lodged with the high court in whose district the court is located. The time allowed to

lodge an appeal is four weeks from the day when the decision was notified to the
individual concerned.
38. The Court Administration’s exercise of supervision according to section 37 above
shall be subject to the provisions of sections 29 and 34. Decisions made by the Court
Administration are final.
Chapter VII
Legal remedies, liability, penalties and final provisions

Part 12
Legal remedies, liability and penalties
39.-(1) The data subject or the data subject’s representative may lodge a complaint with the
competent supervisory authority about the processing of data concerning the data subject,
as prescribed by Article 77 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(2) Decisions made by the supervisory authorities or their failure to consider a complaint
from a data subject or their lack of reporting can be brought before the courts by the data
subject or the data subject’s representative to be considered under the rules of the
administration of civil justice as set out in Article 78 of the General Data Protection
Regulation.
(3) The data subject or the data subject’s representative may bring issues of whether data
controllers or data processors comply with this Act before the courts to be considered
under the rules of the administration of civil justice as set out in Article 79 of the General
Data Protection Regulation.
40. Any person who has suffered a material or non-material loss as a consequence of an
unlawful processing activity or any other processing contrary to the provisions of this Act
and the General Data Protection Regulation shall be entitled to compensation according to
Article 82 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
41.-(1) Unless a higher penalty must be imposed under other legislation, a person shall be
liable to a fine or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months if that person infringes
the provisions on
1) the data controller’s and the data processor’s obligations under Articles 8, 11, 25 - 39,
42 or 43 of the General Data Protection Regulation,
2) the certification body’s obligations under Article 42 or 43 of the General Data
Protection Regulation,
3) the supervisory body’s obligations under Article 41(4) of the General Data Protection
Regulation,
4) the fundamental principles of processing, including the conditions for consent set out in
Articles 5 – 7 and 9 of the General Data Protection Regulation,
5) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 – 22 of the General Data Protection
Regulation or
6) the transfer of personal data to a recipient in a third country or an international
organisation under Articles 44 – 49 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(2) The same penalty shall be imposed on anyone who

1) infringes section 5(1) and (2), section 6, section 7(1) – (4), section 8, section 9(1) and
(2), section 10(1) – (4), sections 11 and 12, section 13(1) – (7), section 20, section 21 or
section 26(1) and (5),
2) infringes Article 10 of the General Data Protection Regulation, unless the infringement
is subject to section 8,
3) prevents the supervisory authority from gaining access under Article 58(1),
4) fails to comply with an order or a provisional or definitive limitation of processing or
the supervisory authority’s suspension of the transfer of data under Article 58(2) of the
General Data Protection Regulation,
5) fails to comply with an order from the supervisory authority as referred to in Article
58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
6) fails to comply with the Data Protection Agency’s requirements according to section
29(1) or section 32(1), second sentence, read with section 29(1) of this Act,
7) prevents the Data Protection Agency from gaining access under section 29(2) or section
32(1), second sentence, read with section 29(2) or
8) fails to comply with the Data Protection Agency’s decisions under the Act in other
respects or sets aside the Data Protection Agency’s terms of authorisation according to the
Act.
(3) Article 83(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation must be complied with when
penalties are imposed according to subsections (1) and (2) above.
(4) Anyone who violates section 24 shall be punished with a fine unless a higher penalty
must be imposed according to other legislation.
(5) Penalties in the form of a fine or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months
may be prescribed by rules issued in pursuance of this Act.
(6) Companies etc. (legal persons) may incur criminal liability according to the rules of
Part 5 of the Criminal Code. Irrespective of section 27(2) of the Criminal Code, public
authorities and institutions etc. that are subject to section 1(1) or (2) of the Public Administration Act may be punished for infringements committed in their performance of activity
that does not correspond to or cannot be considered equal to activity carried through by
private entities.
(7) The period of limitation for infringement of the General Data Protection Regulation,
this Act or rules issued in pursuance of this Act is five years.
42.-(1) Where an infringement of this Act or the General Data Protection Regulation or
rules issued in pursuance of this Act is estimated not to result in a penalty higher than a
fine, the Data Protection Agency may indicate by a fixed penalty notice that the case may
be settled without legal proceedings, if the party who committed the infringement admits to
being guilty of the infringement and declares acceptance of a fine indicated in the fixed
penalty notice within a specified time limit, which may be extended upon request.
(2) The rules of the Administration of Justice Act on the requirements for the content of an
indictment and on the right of an accused to remain silent shall also apply to a fixed
penalty notice.
(3) Where a fine is accepted, any further prosecution shall be discontinued.

43. Anyone who operates or is engaged in the activity referred to in section 26 above or
stores personal data as a private data processor may if convicted of a criminal offence be
deprived of the right to operate such activity in case the offence committed gives reason to
suspect an imminent risk of abuse. In other respects, section 79(3) and (4) of the Criminal
Code shall apply.
Part 13
Final provisions
44.-(1) The competent minister may in exceptional cases, within the scope of the General
Data Protection Regulation’s special rules on the processing of personal data and upon
negotiation with the Minister of Justice lay down specific rules on the processing of data
carried out for entities in public administration.
(2) The Minister of Justice may within the scope of the General Data Protection
Regulation’s special rules on the processing of personal data lay down specific rules on
specified types of processing carried out for private data controllers, including rules to the
effect that certain types of data may not be processed.
45. The Minister of Justice may lay down rules necessary to implement decisions issued
by the European Union in order to implement the General Data Protection Regulation or
rules that are necessary for the application of the legal acts issued by the European Union
in the area of the General Data Protection Regulation.
46.-(1) This Act shall enter into force on 25 May 2018.
(2) Act no. 429 of 31 May 2000 on the Processing of Personal Data shall be repealed.
47. In respect of processing for which authorisation has been granted before this Act
enters into force according to section 50(1), para. 2), 3) and 5) of Act No. 429 of 31 May
2000 on the Processing of Personal Data as amended most recently by Act No. 426 of 3
May 2017, such authorisation shall be in force after the commencement of this Act until
replaced by a new authorisation according to section 26(1) of this Act.
48. This Act shall not extend to the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
Done at Amalienborg, this 23rd May 2018
Under Our Royal Hand and Seal
MARGRETHE R.
/ Søren Pape Poulsen

1)
Regulation No. 679 of 27 April 2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of
natural persons in connection with the processing of personal data and on the free exchange of such data and
on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (the General Data Protection Regulation), Official Journal of the
European Union 2016, No. L 119, page 1, is included as a Schedule to the Act. According to Article 288 of
the TFEU, a Regulation applies directly in each of the Member States. The reproduction of the Regulation in
the Schedule to the Act has thus been included for practical reasons exclusively and does not affect the
Regulation’s direct force and effect in Denmark.

