Basket

Get Email Updates

OUR BRANDS:

Home

Practice Areas

Associations
Jurisdictions

Compare & Research

Latest BrieGngs

Business Sectors

Denmark: Data Protection Laws and Regulations 2020

Latest News

GLG Events

Videos

Partner Events

Login
Contributors

Hot off the press

ICLG - Data Protection Laws and Regulations - Denmark covers common
issues including relevant legislation and competent authorities, territorial scope,
key principles, individual rights, registration formalities, appointment of a data
protection o9cer and of processors - in 39 jurisdictions.
Published: 06/07/2020
28/05/2021

25/05/2021

20/05/2021

Securitisation

Anti
Money
Laundering

Aviation
Finance &
Leasing

ICLG.com > Practice Areas > Data Protection > Denmark

Chapter Content

Read this chapter FREE

Free Access

To download this chapter FREE
1. Relevant Legislation and Competent Authorities

Register or log in here

2. DeJnitions
3. Territorial Scope
4. Key Principles

Buy Chapter in PDF format

£100

Buy the Book in PDF format

£295

5. Individual Rights
6. Registration Formalities and Prior Approval

Other Denmark Chapters

7. Appointment of a Data Protection OScer
8. Appointment of Processors

Aviation Law
Competition Litigation

9. Marketing

Construction & Engineering Law

10. Cookies

Corporate Governance

11. Restrictions on International Data Transfers

Corporate Investigations

12. Whistle-blower Hotlines

Employment & Labour Law
Fintech

13. CCTV

Gambling

14. Employee Monitoring

Insurance & Reinsurance

15. Data Security and Data Breach

Litigation & Dispute Resolution

16. Enforcement and Sanctions
17. E-discovery / Disclosure to Foreign Law Enforcement Agencies
18. Trends and Developments

Mergers & Acquisitions
Pharmaceutical Advertising
Private Client
Public Investment Funds
Shipping Law

1. Relevant Legislation and Competent Authorities

1.1

What is the principal data protection legislation?

Since 25 May 2018, the principal data protection legislation in the EU has been Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (the
“General Data Protection Regulation” or “GDPR”). The GDPR repealed Directive 95/46/EC (the “Data Protection
Directive”) and has led to increased (though not total) harmonisation of data protection law across the EU
Member States.
1.2

Is there any other general legislation that impacts data protection?

On 23 May 2018, the Act on supplementary provisions to the regulation on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (the “Data Protection
Act” or the “DP Act”) was adopted and enforced.
Executive Order of 9 December 2011 (the “Cookie Order”) implements the ePrivacy Directive 2002/58/EC (as
amended by Directive 2009/136/EC) (the “ePrivacy Directive”), which provides a speci[c set of privacy rules to
harmonise the processing of personal data by the telecoms sector. In January 2017, the European
Commission published a proposal for an ePrivacy regulation (the “ePrivacy Regulation”) that would harmonise
the applicable rules across the EU. In September 2017, the Council of the European Union published proposed
revisions to the draft. The ePrivacy Regulation is awaiting Parliament’s position in [rst reading.
Act no. 128 on Electronic Communications Networks and Services of 7 February 2014 (the “Tele Act”) and
Executive Order on the retention and storage of tra9c data by providers of electronic communications
networks and services, no. 988 of 28 September 2006, as amended by executive order of amendment no. 660
of 19 June 2014 (the “Retention Order”), implement parts of Directive 2006/24/EC on the retention of data
generated or processed in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communications
services or of public communications networks and amending Directive 2002/58/EC.
1.3

Is there any sector-speciJc legislation that impacts data protection?

Yes, there is sector-speci[c data protection regulation in the following sectors:
the health sector;
the telecommunications sector;
the [nancial sector; and
the criminal enforcement [eld.
1.4

What authority(ies) are responsible for data protection?

Principally, the Danish Data Protection Agency (the “DPA”) is the supervisory authority with responsibility for
compliance with the GDPR and the DP Act.
The Danish Court Administration supervises the processing of data carried out for the courts when they do not
act in their capacity of courts.
The Danish Business Authority is the supervisory authority for the regulation on cookies and
telecommunication.

2. DeJnitions

2.1

Please provide the key deJnitions used in the relevant legislation:
“Personal Data” means any information relating to an identi[ed or identi[able natural person; an
identi[able natural person is one who can be identi[ed, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to
an identi[er such as a name, an identi[cation number, location data, an online identi[er or to one or
more factors speci[c to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity
of that natural person.
“Processing” means any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets
of personal data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation,
structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission,
dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or
destruction.
“Controller” means the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or
jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data.
“Processor” means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes
personal data on behalf of the controller.
“Data Subject” means an individual who is the subject of the relevant personal data.
“Sensitive Personal Data” are personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious
or philosophical beliefs, trade-union membership, data concerning health or sex life and sexual
orientation, genetic data or biometric data.
“Data Breach” means a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss,
alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise
processed.

3. Territorial Scope

3.1

Do the data protection laws apply to businesses established in other jurisdictions? If so, in what

circumstances would a business established in another jurisdiction be subject to those laws?
The GDPR applies to businesses that are established in any EU Member State, and that process personal data
(either as a controller or processor, and regardless of whether or not the processing takes place in the EU) in
the context of that establishment.
A business that is not established in any Member State, but is subject to the laws of a Member State by virtue
of public international law, is also subject to the GDPR.
The GDPR applies to businesses outside the EU if they (either as controller or processor) process the personal
data of EU residents in relation to: (i) the offering of goods or services (whether or not in return for payment) to
EU residents; or (ii) the monitoring of the behaviour of EU residents (to the extent that such behaviour takes
place in the EU).
Further, the GDPR applies to businesses established outside the EU if they monitor the behaviour of EU
residents (to the extent such behaviour takes place in the EU).

4. Key Principles

4.1

What are the key principles that apply to the processing of personal data?

Transparency
Personal data must be processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner. Controllers must provide certain
minimum information to data subjects regarding the collection and further processing of their personal data.
Such information must be provided in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear
and plain language.
Lawful basis for processing
Processing of personal data is lawful only if, and to the extent that, it is permitted under EU data protection
law. The GDPR provides an exhaustive list of legal bases on which personal data may be processed, of which
the following are the most relevant for businesses: (i) prior, freely given, speci[c, informed and unambiguous
consent of the data subject; (ii) contractual necessity (i.e., the processing is necessary for the performance of
a contract to which the data subject is a party, or for the purposes of pre-contractual measures taken at the
data subject’s request); (iii) compliance with legal obligations (i.e., the controller has a legal obligation, under
the laws of the EU or an EU Member State, to perform the relevant processing); or (iv) legitimate interests (i.e.,
the processing is necessary for the purposes of legitimate interests pursued by the controller, except where
the controller’s interests are overridden by the interests, fundamental rights or freedoms of the affected data
subjects).
Please note that businesses require stronger grounds to process sensitive personal data. The processing of
sensitive personal data is only permitted under certain conditions, of which the most relevant for businesses
are: (i) explicit consent of the affected data subject; (ii) the processing is necessary in the context of
employment law; or (iii) the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.
Purpose limitation
Personal data may only be collected for speci[ed, explicit and legitimate purposes and must not be further
processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes. If a controller wishes to use the relevant
personal data in a manner that is incompatible with the purposes for which they were initially collected, it
must: (i) inform the data subject of such new processing; and (ii) be able to rely on a lawful basis as set out
above.
Data minimisation
Personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
which those data are processed. A business should only process the personal data that it actually needs to
process in order to achieve its processing purposes.
Retention
Personal data must be kept in a form that permits identi[cation of data subjects for no longer than is
necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed.
Accuracy
Personal data must be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date. A business must take every
reasonable step to ensure that personal data that are inaccurate are either erased or recti[ed without delay.
Data security
Personal data must be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of those data, including
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage,
using appropriate technical or organisational measures.
Accountability
The controller is responsible for, and must be able to demonstrate, compliance with the data protection
principles set out above.

5. Individual Rights

5.1

What are the key rights that individuals have in relation to the processing of their personal data?

Right of access to data/copies of data
A data subject has the right to obtain from a controller the following information in respect of the data
subject’s personal data: (i) con[rmation of whether, and where, the controller is processing the data subject’s
personal data; (ii) information about the purposes of the processing; (iii) information about the categories of
data being processed; (iv) information about the categories of recipients with whom the data may be shared;
(v) information about the period for which the data will be stored (or the criteria used to determine that period);
(vi) information about the existence of the rights to erasure, to recti[cation, to restriction of processing and to
object to processing; (vii) information about the existence of the right to complain to the relevant data
protection authority; (viii) where the data were not collected from the data subject, information as to the source
of the data; and (ix) information about the existence of, and an explanation of the logic involved in, any
automated processing that has a signi[cant effect on the data subject.
Additionally, the data subject may request a copy of the personal data being processed.
Right to rectiJcation of errors
Controllers must ensure that inaccurate or incomplete data are erased or recti[ed. Data subjects have the
right to recti[cation of inaccurate personal data.
Right to deletion/right to be forgotten
Data subjects have the right to erasure of their personal data (the “right to be forgotten”) if: (i) the data are no
longer needed for their original purpose (and no new lawful purpose exists); (ii) the lawful basis for the
processing is the data subject’s consent, the data subject withdraws that consent, and no other lawful ground
exists; (iii) the data subject exercises the right to object, and the controller has no overriding grounds for
continuing the processing; (iv) the data have been processed unlawfully; or (v) erasure is necessary for
compliance with EU law or national data protection law.
Right to object to processing
Data subjects have the right to object, on grounds relating to their particular situation, to the processing of
personal data where the basis for that processing is either public interest or legitimate interest of the
controller. The controller must cease such processing unless it demonstrates compelling legitimate grounds
for the processing which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the relevant data subject or requires the
data in order to establish, exercise or defend legal rights.
Right to restrict processing
Data subjects have the right to restrict the processing of personal data, which means that the data may only be
held by the controller, and may only be used for limited purposes if: (i) the accuracy of the data is contested
(and only for as long as it takes to verify that accuracy); (ii) the processing is unlawful and the data subject
requests restriction (as opposed to exercising the right to erasure); (iii) the controller no longer needs the data
for their original purpose, but the data are still required by the controller to establish, exercise or defend legal
rights; or (iv) veri[cation of overriding grounds is pending, in the context of an erasure request.
Right to data portability
Data subjects have a right to receive a copy of their personal data in a commonly used machine-readable
format, and transfer their personal data from one controller to another or have the data transmitted directly
between controllers.
Right to withdraw consent
A data subject has the right to withdraw their consent at any time. The withdrawal of consent does not affect
the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal. Prior to giving consent, the data subject
must be informed of the right to withdraw consent. It must be as easy to withdraw consent as to give it.
Right to object to marketing
Data subjects have the right to object to the processing of personal data for the purpose of direct marketing,
including pro[ling.
Right to complain to the relevant data protection authority(ies)
Data subjects have the right to lodge complaints concerning the processing of their personal data with the
Danish Data Protection Agency, if the data subjects live in Denmark or the alleged infringement occurred in
Denmark.
Right to basic information
Data subjects have the right to be provided with information on the identity of the controller, the reasons for
processing their personal data and other relevant information necessary to ensure the fair and transparent
processing of personal data.

6. Registration Formalities and Prior Approval

6.1

Is there a legal obligation on businesses to register with or notify the data protection authority (or any

other governmental body) in respect of its processing activities?
According to the DP Act, private data controllers shall obtain an authorisation from the DPA prior to the
processing of personal data where the processing of data is carried out:
i. for the purpose of warning others against having business relations or accepting employment with a certain
data subject;
ii. for the purpose of commercial disclosure of data for the assessment of [nancial standing and
creditworthiness; or
iii. exclusively for the purpose of operating legal information systems. Amendments also require authorisation.
The DPA will lay down terms for the processing.
According to the Danish Act on information databases operated by the mass media, mass media shall notify
the DPA of editorial information databases and publicly available information databases.
6.2

If such registration/notiJcation is needed, must it be speciJc (e.g., listing all processing activities,

categories of data, etc.) or can it be general (e.g., providing a broad description of the relevant processing
activities)?
The controller shall provide the DPA with speci[c information on the processing, e.g., “listing all processing
activities, categories of data”, cf. question 6.5.
6.3

On what basis are registrations/notiJcations made (e.g., per legal entity, per processing purpose, per

data category, per system or database)?
Registrations and noti[cations are made according to the processing purpose.
6.4

Who must register with/notify the data protection authority (e.g., local legal entities, foreign legal

entities subject to the relevant data protection legislation, representative or branch oSces of foreign legal
entities subject to the relevant data protection legislation)?
In very few cases, private controllers have an obligation to notify the DPA and obtain approval prior to
processing personal data for speci[c purposes.
6.5

What information must be included in the registration/notiJcation (e.g., details of the notifying entity,

affected categories of individuals, affected categories of personal data, processing purposes)?
An authorisation application requires information on:
name and contact details of the controller (including any joint controller, representative and data
protection o9cer);
purpose and a general description of the processing;
categories of data subjects;
categories of personal data;
categories of recipients;
where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country;
retention period; and
technical and organisational security measures.
6.6

What are the sanctions for failure to register/notify where required?

The provisions on noti[cation of the DPA are based on Article 36, subsection 5 of the GDPR, and the sanctions
for non-compliance with the obligation to obtain an authorisation follow the sanction for non-compliance with
Article 36, subsection 5.
The purpose of the mass media noti[cation is to exclude the mass media information databases from the
scope of the GDPR and DP Act.
There are no sanctions for mass media’s failure to notify the DPA of the information databases. If a mass
media organisation fails to notify the DPA, the media’s processing of personal data in the information database
will be subject to the DP Act and the GDPR.
6.7

What is the fee per registration/notiJcation (if applicable)?

There is no registration fee.
6.8

How frequently must registrations/notiJcations be renewed (if applicable)?

Registrations/noti[cations must be renewed when any amendments are made.
6.9

Is any prior approval required from the data protection regulator?

According to the DP Act, prior approval is only required for disclosure of personal data processed for the sole
purpose of statistical or scienti[c studies of signi[cant importance to society, if disclosure to a third party is
for: (i) the purpose of processing outside the territorial scope of the GDPR; (ii) processing that relates to
biological material; or (iii) the purpose of publication in a recognised scienti[c journal or similar, cf. question
6.1.
6.10

Can the registration/notiJcation be completed online?

No, it requires a positive approval from the DPA.
6.11

Is there a publicly available list of completed registrations/notiJcations?

No, but the application and the authorisation can be subject to requests of subject access according to the
Danish Publicity Act.
6.12

How long does a typical registration/notiJcation process take?

It takes a minimum of six months, sometimes longer. There is a very small number of cases at this point.

7. Appointment of a Data Protection OScer

7.1

Is the appointment of a Data Protection OScer mandatory or optional? If the appointment of a Data

Protection OScer is only mandatory in some circumstances, please identify those circumstances.
The appointment of a Data Protection O9cer for controllers or processors is only mandatory in some
circumstances, including where there is: (i) large-scale regular and systematic monitoring of individuals; or (ii)
large-scale processing of sensitive personal data.
Where a business designates a Data Protection O9cer voluntarily, the requirements of the GDPR apply as
though the appointment were mandatory.
7.2

What are the sanctions for failing to appoint a Data Protection OScer where required?

In the circumstances where appointment of a Data Protection O9cer is mandatory, failure to comply may
result in the wide range of penalties available under the GDPR.
7.3

Is the Data Protection OScer protected from disciplinary measures, or other employment

consequences, in respect of his or her role as a Data Protection OScer?
Yes, and hence the appointed Data Protection O9cer should not be dismissed or penalised for performing
tasks and should report directly to the highest management level of the controller or processor.
7.4

Can a business appoint a single Data Protection OScer to cover multiple entities?

A single Data Protection O9cer is permitted by a group of undertakings provided that the Data Protection
O9cer is easily accessible from each establishment.
7.5

Please describe any speciJc qualiJcations for the Data Protection OScer required by law.

The Data Protection O9cer should be appointed on the basis of professional qualities and should have an
expert knowledge of data protection law and practices. While this is not strictly de[ned, it is clear that the level
of expertise required will depend on the circumstances. For example, the involvement of large volumes of
sensitive personal data will require a higher level of knowledge.
7.6

What are the responsibilities of the Data Protection OScer as required by law or best practice?

A Data Protection O9cer should be involved in all issues which relate to the protection of personal data. The
GDPR outlines the minimum tasks required by the Data Protection O9cer, which include: (i) informing the
controller, processor and their relevant employees who process data of their obligations under the GDPR; (ii)
monitoring compliance with the GDPR, national data protection legislation and internal policies in relation to
the processing of personal data including internal audits; (iii) advising on data protection impact assessments
and the training of staff; and (iv) co-operating with the data protection authority and acting as the authority’s
primary contact point for issues related to data processing.
7.7

Must the appointment of a Data Protection OScer be registered/notiJed to the relevant data

protection authority(ies)?
Yes, the controller or processor must notify the data protection authority of the contact details of the
designated Data Protection O9cer.
7.8

Must the Data Protection OScer be named in a public-facing privacy notice or equivalent document?

The Data Protection O9cer does not necessarily need to be named in the public-facing privacy notice.
However, the contact details of the Data Protection O9cer must be noti[ed to the data subject when personal
data relating to that data subject are collected. As a matter of good practice, the Article 29 Working Party (the
“WP29”) (now the European Data Protection Board (the “EDPB”)) recommended in its 2017 guidance on Data
Protection O9cers that both the data protection authority and employees should be noti[ed of the name and
contact details of the Data Protection O9cer.

8. Appointment of Processors

8.1

If a business appoints a processor to process personal data on its behalf, must the business enter

into any form of agreement with that processor?
Yes. The business that appoints a processor to process personal data on its behalf, is required to enter into an
agreement with the processor which sets out the subject matter for processing, the duration of processing, the
nature and purpose of processing, the types of personal data and categories of data subjects, and the
obligations and rights of the controller (i.e., the business).
It is essential that the processor appointed by the business complies with the GDPR.
8.2

If it is necessary to enter into an agreement, what are the formalities of that agreement (e.g., in

writing, signed, etc.) and what issues must it address (e.g., only processing personal data in accordance with
relevant instructions, keeping personal data secure, etc.)?
The processor must be appointed under a binding agreement in writing. The contractual terms must stipulate
that the processor: (i) only acts on the documented instructions of the controller; (ii) imposes con[dentiality
obligations on all employees; (iii) ensures the security of personal data that it processes; (iv) abides by the
rules of regarding the appointment of sub-processors; (v) implements measures to assist the controller with
guaranteeing the rights of data subjects; (vi) assists the controller in obtaining approval from the relevant data
protection authority; (vii) either returns or destroys the personal data at the end of the relationship (except as
required by EU or Member State law); and (viii) provides the controller with all information necessary to
demonstrate compliance with the GDPR.

9. Marketing

9.1

Please describe any legislative restrictions on the sending of electronic direct marketing (e.g., for

marketing by email or SMS, is there a requirement to obtain prior opt-in consent of the recipient?).
According to the Danish Marketing Practices Act, it is required to obtain a prior opt-in consent from the
recipient. There are some modi[cations for customers of the trader.
9.2

Are these restrictions only applicable to business-to-consumer marketing, or do they also apply in a

business-to-business context?
The restrictions are applicable to both business-to-consumer marketing and business-to-business marketing.
9.3

Please describe any legislative restrictions on the sending of marketing via other means (e.g., for

marketing by telephone, a national opt-out register must be checked in advance; for marketing by post, there
are no consent or opt-out requirements, etc.).
The national opt-out register “Robinsonlisten” must be checked in advance before marketing by telephone and
post.
Marketing by telephone is legal without consent, when the sole purpose is to sell:
Books.
Subscriptions to newspapers and magazines.
Insurance.
Rescue services and healthcare subscriptions.
Marketing by telephone is legal where it is business-to-business.
9.4

Do the restrictions noted above apply to marketing sent from other jurisdictions?

Yes, European and other international traders must comply with the Danish Marketing Practices Act when
sending direct marketing to Danish consumers.
9.5

Is/are the relevant data protection authority(ies) active in enforcement of breaches of marketing

restrictions?
The supervision authority of the Marketing Practices Act is the Danish Consumer Ombudsman.
The Danish Consumer Ombudsman is very active in the enforcement of breaches of marketing restrictions.
9.6

Is it lawful to purchase marketing lists from third parties? If so, are there any best practice

recommendations on using such lists?
Yes, it is lawful to purchase such lists. However, the receiving party must comply with the Marketing Practices
Act. The disclosing party shall comply with Section 13 of the DP Act, which states that an enterprise may not
disclose data concerning a consumer to another enterprise for the purpose of direct marketing or use such
data on behalf of another enterprise for such marketing purpose unless the consumer has given explicit
consent. Consent shall be obtained in accordance with the rules laid down in Section 10 of the Marketing
Practices Act.
On certain conditions pursuant to Section 13 of the DP Act, disclosure of general data on customers which
form the basis for classi[cation into customer categories may take place without consent. It is a condition
that the information can be processed according to Article 6 (1)(f) of the GDPR. It is required that the data
controller, prior to disclosure, controls whether the data subjects have opted out of marketing via the opt-out
list/Robinsonlisten.
Data controllers who sell lists of groups of persons for direct marketing purposes or who print addresses or
distribute messages to such groups on behalf of a third party may only process:
i. data concerning name, address, position, occupation, email address, telephone and fax number;
ii. data contained in trade registers which according to law, or provisions laid down by law, are intended for
public information; and
iii. other data if the data subject has given explicit consent. Consent according to Section 13 must be obtained
in accordance with Section 10 of the Danish Marketing Practices Act.
9.7

What are the maximum penalties for sending marketing communications in breach of applicable

restrictions?
When calculating a [ne for unlawful direct marketing (spam), the following calculation model applies:
Up to 100 spam mails/SMS will trigger a [ne of DKK 10,000. For over 100 spam mail/SMS, an additional [ne
of DKK 100 for each mail will be given. Thus, the penalty for 60 spam mails/SMS will be DKK 10,000, and for
140 spam mails/SMS the [ne will be DKK 14,000.
However, the starting point could derogate in the upward and downward direction if there are aggravating or
mitigating circumstances in the speci[c case.
In our knowledge, the maximum penalty for sending unlawful direct marketing is DKK 800,000 (approx. EUR
107,100).

10. Cookies

10.1

Please describe any legislative restrictions on the use of cookies (or similar technologies).

In November 2009, the European Commission adopted Directive 2009/136/EC (“2009 Directive”), which
amended Directive 2002/58/EC, also known as the e-Privacy Directive. This amendment has been
implemented into Danish law by way of Executive Order no. 1148 of 9 December 2011 (the “Cookie Order”).
The Cookie Order implements Article 5 of the ePrivacy Directive. Pursuant to Article 5 of the EU ePrivacy
Directive, the storage of cookies (or other data) on an end user’s device requires prior consent (the applicable
standard of consent is derived from the GDPR).
On 1 October 2019 the European Court of Justice delivered its judgment in C673/17 (Bundesverband der
Verbraucherzentralen und Verbraucherverbände – Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband eV vs Planet49 GmbH).
The judgment concerns a German company, Planet49, which held an online competition. Participation in the
competition was conditioned upon the user giving the company their name and address while simultaneously
consenting to receiving marketing from several companies. The user had to check a box concerning consent
to participating in the competition. Participation in the competition was, however, not conditioned upon the
user giving to consent to cookies. Despite this, there was a pre-checked box concerning consent to tracking
cookies. As such, the user had to actively uncheck the box if they did not wish to consent.
The judgment addresses two questions: 1) the validity of consent to cookies obtained by using a pre-checked
box; and 2) what information companies must give users in relation to the use of cookies.
With the judgment, the European Court of Justice establishes that consent obtained by using a pre-checked
box is not valid since an active action from the user is required.
Cookies can only be used if the user has given consent and has been informed about, inter alia, the purpose of
the processing. This applies regardless of whether personal data is being processed or not. Consent must, to
be valid, constitute an active action from the user. This means that consent is invalid if it was obtained by
using a pre-checked box or by inactivity.
The European Court of Justice also establishes that a cookie policy must contain information about the
duration of the functioning of the cookies and information about whether third parties are in a position to gain
access to the cookies or not.
After this judgment, the Danish legal guideline on the Cookie Order was updated on 10 December 2019 and
implemented the ruling. Three requirements must be met before consent is valid: 1) the consent must be
given before cookies are stored; 2) the consent must be active; and 3) the consent must be informed.
If cookies involve the processing of Personal Data, the Cookie Order as well as the GDPR and the DP Act must
be complied with. The DPA has issued a guideline on cookies in February 2020 where it is stated that: 1) the
consent must be active; 2) the purpose(s) of the processing must be transparent; 3) it must be easy for the
visitor of the website to give consent to some purposes and not give consent to others; 4) it must be easy to
refuse to give consent; and 5) the owner of the website must be able to document what a visitor has
consented to and how the consent was obtained.
The Danish Business Authority is the supervisory authority regarding the regulation on the use of cookies. The
DPA is also a relevant authority if the use of cookies involves the processing of Personal Data (which is often
the case); cf. question 10.3.
The EU Commission intends to pass a new ePrivacy Regulation that will replace the respective national
legislation in the EU Member States.
10.2

Do the applicable restrictions (if any) distinguish between different types of cookies? If so, what are

the relevant factors?
There are essentially four different types of cookies:
1. technically necessary;
2. functional;
3. statistical; and
4. marketing cookies.
Technical cookies (1) which are necessary to perform a service explicitly requested by the user are not
regulated by the Cookie Order. Consent to technically necessary cookies is not required, as these help the
website to function. Such cookies make a website functional by enabling basic features such as page
navigation and access to secure areas of the website. Speci[cally, these cookies can be divided into two
categories: (a) cookies necessary for data transmission so that the website does not break; and (b) cookies
that must be there to ful[l the purpose of the website, such as an electronic shopping cart on a webshop and
booking systems. Technical cookies also include cookies that ensure that a username and password must
only be entered once if requested by the user.
Functional cookies (2) allow you to store information that changes the way the website looks or behaves; for
example, a preferred language or region.
Statistical cookies (3) help the website owner understand how visitors interact with the website by collecting
and reporting information.
Marketing cookies (4) are used to track visitors across websites and the intention is to serve advertisements
that are relevant and engaged to the individual user and are therefore valuable to publishers and third-party
advertisers.
10.3

To date, has/have the relevant data protection authority(ies) taken any enforcement action in relation

to cookies?
Yes, the DPA has expressed serious criticism of processing of personal data in connection with the display of
banner advertisements on the website of a public authority (a weather report service) without consent (11
February 2020).
10.4

What are the maximum penalties for breaches of applicable cookie restrictions?

This is not applicable. The level of [nes is not capped.

11. Restrictions on International Data Transfers

11.1

Please describe any restrictions on the transfer of personal data to other jurisdictions.

Data transfers to other jurisdictions that are not within the European Economic Area (the “EEA”) can only take
place if the transfer is to an “Adequate Jurisdiction” (as speci[ed by the EU Commission), the business has
implemented one of the required safeguards as speci[ed by the GDPR, or one of the derogations speci[ed in
the GDPR applies to the relevant transfer. The EDPB Guidelines (2/2018) set out that a “layered approach”
should be taken with respect to these transfer mechanisms. If the transfer is not to an Adequate Jurisdiction,
the data exporter should [rst explore the possibility of implementing one of the safeguards provided for in the
GDPR before relying on a derogation.
11.2

Please describe the mechanisms businesses typically utilise to transfer personal data abroad in

compliance with applicable transfer restrictions (e.g., consent of the data subject, performance of a contract
with the data subject, approved contractual clauses, compliance with legal obligations, etc.).
When transferring personal data to a country other than an Adequate Jurisdiction, businesses must ensure
that there are appropriate safeguards on the data transfer, as prescribed by the GDPR. The GDPR offers a
number of ways to ensure compliance for international data transfers, of which one is consent of the relevant
data subject. Other common options are the use of Standard Contractual Clauses or Binding Corporate Rules
(“BCRs”).
Businesses can adopt the Standard Contractual Clauses drafted by the EU Commission – these are available
for transfers between controllers, and transfers between a controller (as exporter) and a processor (as
importer). International data transfers may also take place on the basis of contracts agreed between the data
exporter and data importer provided that they conform to the protections outlined in the GDPR, and they have
prior approval by the relevant data protection authority.
International data transfers within a group of businesses can be safeguarded by the implementation of BCRs.
The BCRs will always need approval from the relevant data protection authority. Most importantly, the BCRs
will need to include a mechanism to ensure they are legally binding and enforced by every member in the group
of businesses. Among other things, the BCRs must set out the group structure of the businesses, the
proposed data transfers and their purpose, the rights of data subjects, the mechanisms that will be
implemented to ensure compliance with the GDPR and the relevant complainant procedures.
Transfer of personal data to the USA is also possible if the data importer has signed up to the EU-US Privacy
Shield Framework, which was designed by the US Department of Commerce and the EU Commission to
provide businesses in the EU and the US with a mechanism to comply with data protection requirements when
transferring personal data from the EU to the US.
11.3

Do transfers of personal data to other jurisdictions require registration/notiJcation or prior approval

from the relevant data protection authority(ies)? Please describe which types of transfers require approval or
notiJcation, what those steps involve, and how long they typically take.
It is likely that the international data transfer will require prior approval from the relevant data protection
authority unless they have already established a GDPR-compliant mechanism as set out above for such
transfers.
In any case, most of the safeguards outlined in the GDPR will need initial approval from the data protection
authority, such as the establishment of BCRs.

12. Whistle-blower Hotlines

12.1

What is the permitted scope of corporate whistle-blower hotlines (e.g., restrictions on the types of

issues that may be reported, the persons who may submit a report, the persons whom a report may concern,
etc.)?
Internal whistle-blowing schemes are generally established in pursuance of a concern to implement proper
corporate governance principles in the daily functioning of businesses. Whistle-blowing is designed as an
additional mechanism for employees to report misconduct internally through a speci[c channel and
supplements a business’ regular information and reporting channels, such as employee representatives, line
management, quality-control personnel or internal auditors who are employed precisely to report such
misconduct.
The WP29 has limited its Opinion 1/2006 on the application of EU data protection rules to internal whistleblowing schemes to the [elds of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters, [ght against
bribery, banking and [nancial crime. The scope of corporate whistle-blower hotlines, however, does not need
to be limited to any particular issues. In the Opinion, it is recommended that the business responsible for the
whistle-blowing scheme should carefully assess whether it might be appropriate to limit the number of
persons eligible for reporting alleged misconduct through the whistle-blowing scheme and whether it might be
appropriate to limit the number of persons who may be reported through the scheme; in particular, in the light
of the seriousness of the alleged offences reported.
According to the former Danish Act on Processing of Personal Data, the DPA issued a guideline on the
processing of personal data in connection with whistle-blower systems. According to the guideline, a
company may process information relating to corporate crime, safety-at-work issues, and violation of rules
that may have a serious consequence for employees such as sexual harassment or violence. Additionally,
information that it would be mandatory to report under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act may, in the opinion of the
DPA, be legally processed in a whistle-blower system. Special categories of information, such as information
pertaining to an employee’s criminal records, may be processed. However, sensitive information – cf. Article 9
of the GDPR – may not be processed. According to several corporate rules, some entities are obliged to
establish whistle-blower schemes. The DPA approves that these types of whistle-blower schemes may be
legally processed.
12.2

Is anonymous reporting prohibited, strongly discouraged, or generally permitted? If it is prohibited or

discouraged, how do businesses typically address this issue?
Anonymous reporting is not prohibited under EU data protection law; however, it raises problems as regards
the essential requirement that personal data should only be collected fairly. In Opinion 1/2006, the WP29
considered that only identi[ed reports should be advertised in order to satisfy this requirement. Businesses
should not encourage or advertise the fact that anonymous reports may be made through a whistle-blower
scheme.
An individual who intends to report to a whistle-blowing system should be aware that he/she will not suffer
due to his/her action. The whistle-blower, at the time of establishing the [rst contact with the scheme, should
be informed that his/her identity will be kept con[dential at all the stages of the process, and in particular will
not be disclosed to third parties, such as the incriminated person or to the employee’s line management. If,
despite this information, the person reporting to the scheme still wants to remain anonymous, the report will
be accepted into the scheme. Whistle-blowers should be informed that their identity may need to be disclosed
to the relevant people involved in any further investigation or subsequent judicial proceedings instigated as a
result of any enquiry conducted by the whistle-blowing scheme.

13. CCTV

13.1

Does the use of CCTV require separate registration/notiJcation or prior approval from the relevant

data protection authority(ies), and/or any speciJc form of public notice (e.g., a high-visibility sign)?
A data protection impact assessment (“DPIA”) must be undertaken with assistance from the Data Protection
O9cer when there is systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale. If the DPIA
suggests that the processing would result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals prior to any
action being taken by the controller, the controller must consult the data protection authority.
During the course of a consultation, the controller must provide information on the responsibilities of the
controller and/or processors involved, the purpose of the intended processing, a copy of the DPIA, the
safeguards provided by the GDPR to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects and, where applicable,
the contact details of the Data Protection O9cer.
If the data protection authority is of the opinion that the CCTV monitoring would infringe the GDPR, it has to
provide written advice to the controller within eight weeks of the request of a consultation and can use any of
its wider investigative, advisory and corrective powers outlined in the GDPR.
Danish Act no. 1190 of 11 October 2007 regarding CCTV is supervised by the Danish National Police. The Act
regulates private controllers’ use of CCTV. The Act has speci[c provisions regarding the transfer of personal
data from CCTV.
13.2

Are there limits on the purposes for which CCTV data may be used?

Yes, CCTV may only be used for the purpose of preventing crime and for security purposes.

14. Employee Monitoring

14.1

What types of employee monitoring are permitted (if any), and in what circumstances?

Employees can be monitored when the following conditions are met:
The monitoring is justi[ed for operational reasons and according to a fair purpose.
The monitoring is not offensive to the employees.
The monitoring does not cause losses or signi[cant disadvantages.
The monitoring is proportional according to its purpose.
The employee shall be given six weeks’ notice. If the purpose or operational reasons make it necessary,
monitoring can be initiated without notice.
Examples of employee monitoring include email and internet access, CCTV, time recorders, etc.
14.2

Is consent or notice required? Describe how employers typically obtain consent or provide notice.

Notice is required, and the notice is typically given in connection with the employment agreement.
14.3

To what extent do works councils/trade unions/employee representatives need to be notiJed or

consulted?
If the company has a work council, such work council should be noti[ed; alternatively, the union representative.
It is recommended that an actual local agreement be concluded on the control measures and on any
consequences of an infringement.

15. Data Security and Data Breach

15.1

Is there a general obligation to ensure the security of personal data? If so, which entities are

responsible for ensuring that data are kept secure (e.g., controllers, processors, etc.)?
Yes. Personal data must be processed in a way which ensures security and safeguards against unauthorised
or unlawful processing, accidental loss, destruction and damage of the data.
Both controllers and processors must ensure they have appropriate technical and organisational measures to
meet the requirements of the GDPR. Depending on the security risk, this may include: the encryption of
personal data; the ability to ensure the ongoing con[dentiality, integrity and resilience of processing systems;
an ability to restore access to data following a technical or physical incident; and a process for regularly
testing and evaluating the technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of processing.
15.2

Is there a legal requirement to report data breaches to the relevant data protection authority(ies)? If

so, describe what details must be reported, to whom, and within what timeframe. If no legal requirement
exists, describe under what circumstances the relevant data protection authority(ies) expect(s) voluntary
breach reporting.
The controller is responsible for reporting a personal data breach without undue delay (and in any case within
72 hours of [rst becoming aware of the breach) to the relevant data protection authority, unless the breach is
unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subject(s). A processor must notify any data
breach to the controller without undue delay.
The noti[cation must include the nature of the personal data breach, including the categories and number of
data subjects concerned, the name and contact details of the Data Protection O9cer or relevant point of
contact, the likely consequences of the breach, and the measures taken to address the breach, including
attempts to mitigate possible adverse effects.
15.3

Is there a legal requirement to report data breaches to affected data subjects? If so, describe what

details must be reported, to whom, and within what timeframe. If no legal requirement exists, describe under
what circumstances the relevant data protection authority(ies) expect(s) voluntary breach reporting.
Controllers have a legal requirement to communicate the breach to the data subject, without undue delay, if the
breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subject.
The noti[cation must include the name and contact details of the Data Protection O9cer (or point of contact),
the likely consequences of the breach, and any measures taken to remedy or mitigate the breach.
The controller may be exempt from notifying the data subject if the risk of harm is remote (e.g., because the
affected data is encrypted), the controller has taken measures to minimise the risk of harm (e.g., suspending
affected accounts) or the noti[cation requires a disproportionate effort (e.g., a public notice of the breach).
15.4

What are the maximum penalties for data security breaches?

The maximum penalty is the higher of EUR 20 million or 4% of worldwide turnover.

16. Enforcement and Sanctions

16.1

Describe the enforcement powers of the data protection authority(ies).

Investigatory/Enforcement

Civil/Administrative Sanction

Power

Investigative Powers

The DPA has wide powers to order the controller

Criminal Sanction

N/A

and the processor to provide any information it
requires for the performance of its tasks, to
conduct investigations in the form of data
protection audits, to carry out review on certi[cates
issued pursuant to the GDPR, to notify the
controller or processor of alleged infringement of
the GDPR, to access all personal data and all
information necessary for the performance of
controllers’ or processors’ tasks and access to the
premises of the data including any data processing
equipment.

Corrective Powers

The DPA has a wide range of powers including to

N/A

issue warnings or reprimands for non-compliance,
to order the controller to disclose a personal data
breach to the data subject, to impose a permanent
or temporary ban on processing, to withdraw a
certi[cation and to recommend a [ne (as below).

Authorisation and Advisory

The DPA has a wide range of powers to advise the

Powers

controller, accredit certi[cation bodies and to

N/A

authorise certi[cates, contractual clauses,
administrative arrangements and binding corporate
rules as outlined in the GDPR.
The opinion of the DPA shall be obtained of
legislative proposals, executive orders, circulars or
similar general regulations that affect the
protection of privacy in connection with the
processing of personal data.

Imposition of administrative

The legal system of Denmark does not allow for

[nes for infringements of

administrative [nes as set out in the GDPR.

speci[ed GDPR provisions

However, the GDPR states that the competent

N/A

national courts should take into account the
recommendation by the supervisory authority
initiating the [ne. In any event, the [nes imposed
should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
The GDPR provides for administrative [nes which
can be EUR 20 million or up to 4% of the business’
worldwide annual turnover of the proceeding
[nancial year, and the Danish courts are bound by
this.

Non-compliance with a data

As mentioned above, the Danish legal system does

protection authority

not allow for administrative [nes as set out in the

N/A

GDPR.
Therefore, the DPA may not impose [nes for noncompliance, but could instead recommend a [ne
and [le a police report after which the prosecution
must conduct the case and the [nal [ne is imposed
by competent national courts as a criminal penalty.
Also, the DPA may [le a civil case with the Danish
courts.

16.2

Does the data protection authority have the power to issue a ban on a particular processing activity?

If so, does such a ban require a court order?
The GDPR entitles the relevant data protection authority to impose a temporary or de[nitive limitation
including a ban on processing.
The DP Act may in exceptional cases prohibit, restrict, or suspend the transfer to a third country or an
international organisation of information according to Article 9(1) of the GDPR in cases where a decision has
not been adopted concerning the adequacy of the level of protection under Article 45 of the GDPR.
16.3

Describe the data protection authority’s approach to exercising those powers, with examples of

recent cases.
As mentioned in question 16.1, the DPA is not authorised to give administrative [nes but can instead
recommend a [ne and [le a police report, after which the prosecution must conduct the case, and competent
national courts impose the [nal [ne.
The DPA has, at this time (March 2020), [led two police reports. The [rst case concerns a Danish taxi
company, where the DPA recommended a [ne of DKK 1.2 million (approximately EUR 160,590) in March 2019.
The violation regards the lack of deletion, and approximately 9 million taxi trips were allegedly unlawfully
processed. Further, allegedly the company’s procedure for anonymising personal data was inadequate, and
the company has not been able to document the erasure made in the systems and the procedures for this.
The second case concerns a company where the DPA recommended a [ne of DKK 1.5 million (approximately
EUR 200,750) in June 2019. The violation also regards the failure of deletion, and in this case, it was personal
data regarding 385,000 customers. The company had been processing personal data for a longer period than
necessary for the purposes for which they were processed. In order to ensure that the personal data were not
kept longer than necessary, the company should have complied with their time limits established by the
company.
The DPA can issue reprimands where processing operations have infringed provisions of the GDPR or order a
company to bring processing operations into compliance with the GDPR.
The DPA has been active in the enforcement within its authorisation, and there are at this point many decisions
from the DPA where the DPA either has issued reprimands or ordered a company to bring processing
operations into compliance with the rules.
In general, the decisions are about:
The principles of the processing of personal data (see the two cases mentioned above).
The basis of the processing. The DPA has, for example, prohibited a company from recording telephone
conversations without obtaining a consent to do so, as they decided that the processing could not be
done within the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the company.
The rights of the data subject. For example, the DPA has issued severe reprimands where a company
could not erase a data subject, and it was not su9cient that the inaccurate personal data were recti[ed.
Security of processing. The DPA has issued a reprimand to a company over the use of the encryption
form TLS (encryption in the transport layer) without further control. This was not a su9cient security
measure and, therefore, when sending con[dential and sensitive information, forced TLS must be used.
Noti[cation of a personal data breach to the supervisory authority. For example, the DPA has ordered a
company to communicate the personal data breach to the data subject.
The lack of designation of a Data Protection O9cer.
16.4

Does the data protection authority ever exercise its powers against businesses established in other

jurisdictions? If so, how is this enforced?
The “one-stop shop” mechanism of the GDPR regulates where the Danish DPA has jurisdiction in another
Member State.
In October 2019, the DPA ordered an international company to bring processing operations into compliance
with the provisions of the GDPR regarding the deletion of personal data about a British data subject. The DPA
issued reprimands to this company regarding the processing of personal data that did not comply with the
GDPR. The company had a practice where it requested passport identi[cation from data subjects trying to
exercise their rights under the GDPR without making a speci[c assessment on whether there is reasonable
doubt as to the identity of the data subject.
This is the [rst case which the Danish DPA has decided as the lead supervisory authority under the “one-stopshop mechanism” in connection with cross-border processing of personal data.

17. E-discovery / Disclosure to Foreign Law Enforcement Agencies

17.1

How do businesses typically respond to foreign e-discovery requests, or requests for disclosure from

foreign law enforcement agencies?
Foreign law enforcement authorities requesting information from Danish entities, etc., must send a letter
rogatory to the Danish law enforcement authorities regarding the information needed. In this case, the Danish
law enforcement authorities may try to get a court order or to obtain acknowledgment of a foreign court order.
A Danish data controller is only permitted to disclose personal data according to the regulation on processing
of personal data (primarily, the GDPR or the DP Act).
17.2

What guidance has/have the data protection authority(ies) issued?

There is no speci[c guidance on the subject.

18. Trends and Developments

18.1

What enforcement trends have emerged during the previous 12 months? Describe any relevant case

law.
For relevant case law, please see question 16.3 above.

We have noted the following trends from the DPA:
The DPA has stated that the [rst police report was [led because of the considerable amount of
personal data which were stored without valid purposes.
In one case, the DPA considered reporting a high school to the police, as the answers of the high school
were incomplete and they provided connicting information. However, after consulting the high school,
the case was su9ciently disclosed, and the DPA only expressed severe reprimands.
In one case regarding the lack of data protection agreements, the DPA stated that it was a mitigating
factor that the data controller, a public authority, had a clear overview of where it had not entered into
data processing agreements and where content needed to be updated. Further, during the visit at the
public authority, the DPA had the impression that the public authority had, in general, initiated several
measures for ensuring compliance with the rules, and that the lack was mainly due to the long
implementation time of the measures concerned.
18.2

What “hot topics” are currently a focus for the data protection regulator?

As of March 2020, the DPA had not yet published its focus areas for 2020, but the focus areas for the latter
half of 2019 are:
Data processors.

Contributors

Daily monitoring.
Data processing in connection with employment.
Automated individual decision-making, including pro[ling.

Christine Jans
Synch

CORONAVIRUS UPDATE

TESTIMONIALS

CONTACT US

ABOUT US

CAREERS

CONTRIBUTOR LOGIN

Heidi Højmark Helveg
The Inter natio nal Co m parative Legal G u ides and the Inter natio nal Bu siness Repo r ts are pu blished by: G lo bal Legal G ro u p

CO:PLAY

Global Legal Group
59 Tanner Street, London SE1 3PL, UK

These are well thought out focused products getting us in front of exactly the

“ right people."

Elena Herrero-Beaumount - Public Relations & Communication, Garrigues

Follow us on LinkedIn

customer.ser vice@glgroup.co.uk | +44 207 367 0720

“

© 2002-2021 Co py r ight: ICLG . c o m | Ou r Pr ivac y

We use cookies to maximise functionality and improve your experience More
Set my
info
preferences

Unlock 3 FREE PDF chapters by registering with us FREE

Log in

Register with us FREE

I understand

