DATA PROTECTION
LAWS OF THE WORLD
UAE - Dubai Health Care City Free Zone

Downloaded: 27 June 2021

DATA PROTECTION LAWS OF THE WORLD

UAE - DUBAI HEALTH CARE CITY FREE ZONE

Last modified 21 January 2021

LAW

Note: Please also see UAE – General, UAE – DIFC, UAE – ADGM.

The Dubai Healthcare City ("DHCC"), a healthcare free zone in Dubai, implemented DHCC Health Data Protection Regulation
No 7 of 2013 (which repealed and replaces the DHCC Data Protection regulation No. 7 of 2008) ("HDPR").
The HDPR regulates the protection of Patient Health Information, as opposed 'personal data'.
Note that as opposed to the ICT Health Law, which applies to entities across the UAE, including within freezones such as the
DHCC (please see UAE – General), the DHCC HDPR only applies to those entities licensed within the DHCC and to patient
information generated and stored therein.

DEFINITIONS
Definition of Patient Health Information
Information about a patient, whether spoken, written, or in the form of an Electronic Record, that is created or received by any
Licensee, that relates to the physical or mental health or condition of the patient, including the reports from any diagnostic
procedures and information related to the payment for services.

Definition of Licensee
A Licensed Healthcare Professional, Licensed Complementary and Alternative Medicine Professional, a Licensed Healthcare
Operator, an Approved Education Operator, an Approved Research Operator, a Licensed Commercial Company, or a
Non-Clinical Operating Permit Holder; (essentially a healthcare professional working in the DHCC with access to Patient Health
Information).

Definition of Process, Processed, Processes and Processing
Any operation or set of operations which is performed on Patient Health Information, whether or not by automatic means such as
collection, recording, organization, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission,
dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment, erasure or destruction.

NATIONAL DATA PROTECTION AUTHORITY
The DHCC Board of Directors and the Executive Body of the Dubai Healthcare City Authority ("DHCA") are responsible for
ensuring proper administration the HDPR and any Rules, Standards and Policies made under the HDPR.
2 | Data Protection Laws of the World | UAE - Dubai Health Care City Free Zone | www.dlapiperdataprotection.com

DATA PROTECTION LAWS OF THE WORLD

The Centre for Healthcare Planning and Quality is responsible for the compliance and enforcement of the HDPR (" CPQ").
Dubai Healthcare City Authority - Regulatory
Tel: +971-4-3838300
Fax: +971-4-3838300
info@dhcr.gov.ae

REGISTRATION
Not applicable.

DATA PROTECTION OFFICERS
There is a requirement for each Licensee, to have one or more Data Protection Officers. The responsibilities of the Data
Protection Officers include the encouragement of compliance by the Licensee with the HDPR; dealing with requests made to the
Licensee under the HDPR; and otherwise ensuring compliance by the Licensee with the provisions of the HDPR (section 40
HDPR).

COLLECTION & PROCESSING
Patient Health Information is not permitted to be collected by any Licensee, unless it is for a lawful purpose, and the collection is
necessary for that purpose (article 27 HDPR). However, the meaning of lawful purpose is not defined in the HDPR.
The Patient Health Information should be collected from the patient directly, unless the Lisensee believes on reasonable grounds
that:
the Patient concerned authorizes Collection of the information from someone else having been made aware of the
matters set out in section 29(1);
the Patient is unable to give his authority, and the Licensee having made the Patient’s Representative aware of the matters
set out in section 29(1) Collects the Patient Health Information from the Representative or the Representative authorizes
Collection from someone else;
compliance would prejudice the: (i) interests of the Patient; or (ii) purposes of collection; or (iii) safety of any individual;
compliance is not reasonably practicable in the circumstances of the particular case;
the Collection is for the purpose of assembling a family or genetic history of a Patient and is collected directly from that
Patient and/or the Patient’s Representative;
the Patient Health Information is Publicly Available Information;
the Patient Health Information: (i) shall not be used in a form in which the Patient is identified; (ii) shall be used for
statistical purposes and shall not be published in a form that could reasonably be expected to identify the Patient; or (iii)
shall be used for research purposes (for which approval by an ethics committee, if required, has been given) and shall not
be published in a form that could reasonably be expected to identify the Patient; or
non-compliance is necessary: (i) to avoid prejudice to the maintenance of the law including the prevention, detection,
investigation, prosecution, and punishment of offences; (ii) for the conduct of proceedings before any court or tribunal
(being proceedings that have been commenced or are reasonably in contemplation) (section 28 HDPR).

TRANSFER
Patient Health Information may only be transferred to a third party located in a jurisdiction outside DHCC if (1) an adequate level
3 | Data Protection Laws of the World | UAE - Dubai Health Care City Free Zone | www.dlapiperdataprotection.com

DATA PROTECTION LAWS OF THE WORLD

of protection for that Patient Health Information is ensured by the laws and regulations that are applicable to the third party; and
(2) the transfer is either: (a) authorized by the Patient; or (b) necessary for the ongoing provision of Healthcare Services to the
Patient.
A jurisdiction shall be considered to have an adequate level of protection if that jurisdiction is listed as an acceptable jurisdiction
under the Dubai International Financial Center Data Protection Law No. 1 of 2007, or has the written approval of the Central
Governance Board.
The DHCC Healthcare Data Protection Regulation of 2008 contained a provision which permitted the transfer of Patient Heath
Information to a jurisdiction without adequate protection, if a permit was sought. However, this was removed under the HDPL
and the Central Government Board does not have the power to issue permits in respect of transfer to jurisdictions without an
adequate level of protection.

SECURITY
A Licensee is responsible for the security of its information systems and networks and should act in a timely and co-operative
manner to prevent, detect and respond to security incidents. A Licensee is further required review and assess the security of
information systems and networks and make appropriate modifications to security policies, practices, measure and procedures on
a regular basis. Any security incidents must be disclosed to the CPU on a periodic basis.
A Licensee that holds Patient Health Information must maintain the security of the Patient Health Information, ensuring it is stored
in a way that can be readily retrieved and easy removed or shared, as well as protecting the accuracy of the information. A
Licensee if further responsible for ensuring reasonable safeguards are put in place to protect the Patient Health Information from
loss, destruction, potential fire / water damage, tampering, theft, unauthorized access, use, modification, or disclosure (section 31,
HDPR).

BREACH NOTIFICATION
There is no specific requirement set out in the DPL obliging a Licensee to inform the CPQ in the event of a breach. Licensees are
required to inform the Customer Protection Unit (within CPQ) on a periodic basis of any security incidents.

ENFORCEMENT
The CPQ is responsible for the compliance and enforcement of the HDPR and may delegate its powers and duties to any
appropriate committee(s) constituted by it or to appropriate person(s) appointed by it (section 42 HDPR).
The powers, duties and functions of CPQ include: (a) conducting an audit of Patient Health Information when requested by a
Licensee for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the information is maintained in accordance with the HDPR; (b)
monitoring the use of Personal Identifiers, and to reporting to the Executive Body from time to time on the results of that
monitoring, including any recommendations relating to the need for, or desirability of taking regulatory, administrative, or other
action to give protection, or better protection, to the Patient or the Licensee; and (c) monitoring compliance with the HDPR.
CPQ may require a Licensee to produce ospecififed information or documents when requested in writing, in relation to the
Processing of Patient Helath Information of a complaint about an Interference with Patient Health Information. If the Licensee
does not comply with the request, the CPQ may impose a Penalty as set out in a list to be published by the DHCA from time to
time (section 42).
It does not appear that the DHCA have produced any further information on the penalties that apply in relation to a breach of
HDPR. It is unclear how any breaches of the HDPR will be dealt with in the DHCC.

ELECTRONIC MARKETING
The HDPR does not contain specific provisions relating to electronic or direct marketing.

ONLINE PRIVACY

4 | Data Protection Laws of the World | UAE - Dubai Health Care City Free Zone | www.dlapiperdataprotection.com

DATA PROTECTION LAWS OF THE WORLD

The HDPR does not contain specific provisions relating to online privacy, however, the broad provisions detailed above are likely
to apply. In addition, as UAE criminal law applies in the DHCC, the privacy principles laid out therein may apply (see UAE –
General).

KEY CONTACTS
Eamon Holley
Partner
T +971 4 438 6293
eamon.holley@dlapiper.com
Alex Mackay
Associate
T +971 4 438 6160
alex.mackay@dlapiper.com

DATA PRIVACY TOOL
You may also be interested in our Data Privacy Scorebox to assess your organization's level of data protection maturity.

5 | Data Protection Laws of the World | UAE - Dubai Health Care City Free Zone | www.dlapiperdataprotection.com

DATA PROTECTION LAWS OF THE WORLD

Disclaimer
DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be
found at www.dlapiper.com.
This publication is intended as a general overview and discussion of the subjects dealt with, and does not create a lawyer-client
relationship. It is not intended to be, and should not be used as, a substitute for taking legal advice in any specific situation. DLA
Piper will accept no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken on the basis of this publication.
This may qualify as 'Lawyer Advertising' requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
Copyright © 2021 DLA Piper. All rights reserved.

