DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
GOVERNMENT
_________________________
DECREE-LAW No. 2/2004
Of 4 February 2004
CIVIL IDENTIFICATION
The Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste defines, under the terms of
section 3, who original citizens of Timor-Leste are, and the National Parliament has
defined in a law, inter alia, the modes of acquisition of citizenship.
It is now incumbent upon the Government, through its National Directorate of Registries
and Notarial Services, which is the entity of the central administration vested with
authority to undertake civil registration, to regulate the regime of civil identification, in
such a way that supporting documents of Timorese citizenship, inter alia, may be issued,
notably the national identity card.
Thus, pursuant to paragraph (b) of subsection 115.1 and subsection 115.3 of the
Constitution of the Republic, the Government enacts the following that shall have the
force of law:
CHAPTER I
Civil identification
Section 1
Purpose and general principles
1. The purpose of civil registration is to collect, treat and store the identifying particulars
of each citizen with a view to establishing his or her civil identity.
2. Civil identification observes the principles of legality, authenticity, truthfulness,
univocity and security of the citizens’ identifying particulars.
Section 2
Civil identification services
1. It is incumbent upon the National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services,
through the Civil and Criminal Identification Service, to issue national identity cards.
2. Civil registries, appointed to that effect by a ministerial order, may issue identity cards.

1

CHAPTER II
Identity card
Section 3
Identification documents
1. Identity cards are issued to national citizens.
2. The identification of foreigners is regulated by Law No. 9/2003, of 15 October.
Part I
Holding a national identity card and its validity
Section 4
Validity of a national identity card
1. The identity card constitutes a sufficient document to prove Timorese citizenship and
the civil identity of its holder before any public or private authorities or entities.
2. The format of the identity card shall be determined by Ministerial Decree.
Section 5
Production of an identity card
Every national citizen is required to apply for an identity card, and to produce it as
required by law.
Part II
Contents of a national identity card
Section 6
Identifying particulars
In addition to its number, date of issuance, date of expiry, signature of the registrar, an
identity card contains the following particulars of its holder:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)

Name of the holder;
Parentage;
Place of birth;
Date of birth;
Gender;
Marital status;
Photograph;
Signature;
Fingerprints;
Citizenship.

2

Section 7
Identity card number
1. The identity card number issued for the first time to a national citizen is retained upon
renewal and shall be the same as that of the correspondent personal file.
2. The identity card shall display a sequential numeric bar, followed by control digits.
Section 8
Name of the holder
1. The name of the holder is recorded in the identity card, using the official spelling, and
shall be in harmony with:
(a) The particulars recorded in the birth certificate;
(b) Either spouse may add the other’s family name;
Section 9
Parentage
1. The parentage of the holder to be recorded in the identity card is the same as the one
mentioned in the birth certificate.
2. Where parentage is not referred to in the birth certificate, mention shall be made in this
respect.
Section 10
Place of birth
1. The place of birth is recorded in the identity card by indicating the name of the “suco”,
sub-district and district of origin in the country, in the case of persons born on Timorese
soil.
2. In respect to Timorese born overseas, the current name of the place and country of
birth.
3. Where the respective place of birth is not mentioned in the birth certificate, the missing
particular is omitted.
Section 11
Date of birth
The date of birth to be recorded in the identity card is the same as the one mentioned in
the birth certificate.
Section 12
Gender

3

The gender is recorded by using the initials M or F, depending on whether the holder is a
male or female.
Section 13
Marital status
1. The marital status is recorded in conformity with the statement made by the applicant
while applying for the identity card, whenever the entry of the particulars in the civil
register has been verified, or proved through the documents produced, and does not
constitute proof of the marital status of that person.
Section 14
Residency
1. The residency is indicated in the identity card in accordance with the statement made
by the applicant, by recording the locality and district of residency.
Section 15
Signature
1. Signature means the civil name, written by the respective holder, in full or in short, in a
habitual and characteristic manner and with freedom of spelling.
2. A signature is always affixed in the presence of a civil registry official.
3. Where the applicant is not able or does not know how to sign, adequate reference shall
be made to this fact.
Section 16
Fingerprints
1. The prints are to be taken from the right-hand index finger or, where these prints
cannot be taken, those from the left-hand index finger and, in its absence, those from any
other finger.
2. Where the prints taken are not those of the right-hand index finger, the relevant finger
shall be mentioned.
3. Where no fingerprints can be taken, adequate mention shall be made.
Section 17
Validity period
1. The identity card is valid for 5 years when issued before the applicant has turned sixty
years old, and the renewal thereof shall be applied for by the applicant in accordance with
the present decree-law.

4

2. Where the identity card is issued or renewed after the applicant has turned sixty years
old, the identity card is valid for life.
Part III
Application for, and issuance of, a national identity card
Section 18
Identity card application
1. An identity card is applied for by the holder of the corresponding identifying
particulars, in a proper form, filled in with a readable writing, free from any amendments,
erasures or interlineations, and bearing the signature habitually used by the applicant.
2. Where the applicant is less than 12 years old or physically or legally disabled, the
application shall also be signed by either parent or by his or her legal representative.
3. The application for renewal of an identity card is made within its validity period, either
because of outdated identifying particulars or, without prejudice to the provisions of
section 22, due to bad condition, loss, destruction or theft.
4. In the event of loss, theft or total destruction of the identity card, the applicant shall
report such circumstances to the police authorities or competent authorities, which shall
issue a reporting certificate.
5. Renewal due to expiry of the validity period shall be applied for three months before
expiry, without prejudice to exceptional cases based on well-grounded reasons.
6. The application for an identity card shall be filed with the services referred to in
subsections 2.1 and 2.2, located in the area of residency of the applicant.
Section 19
Elements accompanying an application
1. The application is lodged together with the following elements:
(a) two equal, passport-sized colour photographs of the applicant, taken less than a
year ago, with single colour background, in good condition and in a size adequate
for the identity card format;
(b) birth certificate;
(c) The filled-in application form referred to in section 18, to which the fingerprints
are to be affixed.
2. The validity period of a birth certificate is 12 months, accrued from the date of its
issuance, except for those pertaining to persons aged less than 12 years, the validity of
which shall not be limited to any validity period.

5

3. When applying for renewal of an identity card, the filing of the document referred to in
paragraph (b) of subsection 19.1 is not required, where no changes that need to be proved
through it have occurred.
4. Where the previous identity card is not exhibited or it shows changes to the security
elements, the production of a birth certificate is required.
5. In case of acquired citizenship, the applicant shall produce references to the citizenship
acquisition process.
Section 20
Additional proof
Where doubts are raised as to the accuracy or the holder of the identifying elements
mentioned by an identity card applicant, the relevant services may require additional
proof or a written statement from the Chief of Hamlet or Chief of ‘Suco” of the area of
residency of the applicant.
Section 21
Authentication
An identity card is authenticated by the issuing authority by affixing to it its embossed
seal or other security elements, and the signature of the registrar.
Section 22
Applying for a second copy
1. The second copy is a replication of the original identity card.
2. A second copy of the identity card may be applied for in case of bad condition, loss,
destruction or theft, where there have been no changes to the elements mentioned therein.
3. The application is filed together with a statement of the motives behind it, namely the
certificate contemplated in subsection 18.4, and is accompanied by two photographs
meeting the requirements set out in paragraph (a) of subsection 18.1.
4. In case of doubt about the applicant’s identity, the issuance of the second copy may be
refused or granted upon production of additional proof.
CHAPTER III
Protection of particulars
Part I
Database
Section 23
Purpose of the database
6

The purpose of the civil identification database is to organize the information required for
the establishment of the identity of the holders of the corresponding identity card, and to
keep it updated.
Section 24
Collected particulars
In addition to the identifying elements contained in the identity card, the following
particulars of the respective holder are to be collected:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

number and year of the birth record and the civil registry where it was done;
if married, name of the spouse;
loss of citizenship;
date of death.
Section 25
Manner of collecting and updating data

The particulars stored in the database are collected and updated on the basis of statements
made by their holders or of proper forms filled in by the latter themselves or at their
request, or of attached documents, excepting the identity card number, which is
automatically assigned at the time the identity card is first issued.
(a) the fingerprints are taken at the time when the application is filed;
(b) the date of death is collected from the notification issued by the civil registry
holding the death record;
(c) the loss of citizenship is collected from the notification issued by the Central Civil
Registry;
(d) particulars are recorded and viewed by officials and agents of the civil
identification services and of the civil registries, who have been credentialed to
that effect.
(e) the forms designed to collect particulars or the accompanying instructions for
filling in such forms shall contain the information held by the National
Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services.
PART II
Transmission of, consultation of, and access to, information
Section 26
Transmission of information
1. For the purposes of criminal investigation by police or judicial authorities, the
particulars entered in the database, as well as those in the respective application form,
may be transmitted to such authorities, whenever particulars may not or should not be
obtained through the persons concerned and the interested entities have no access to the
database or the latter does not have the said information.

7

2. A transmission undertaken in accordance with subsection (1) above depends on a wellfounded request from the judicial magistrate himself or herself or from a criminal police
authority, made in a proper form.
3. A transmission shall be denied where the request is not based on well-founded reasons.
4. Information may be provided by production of the electronic record or records or of
the document required or, if deemed indispensable, and following authorization from the
National Director of Registries and Notarial Services, by consultation of the respective
identity card file.
Section 27
On-line consultation
1. Consultation through a data transmission line may be authorized to the entities referred
to in the section above through an agreement to be entered into with the National
Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services, provided that respect for the rules on
security of information and technical availability are ensured.
2. Any form of interconnection of the data existing in the civil identification database is
not permitted, except under the terms provided for in special legislation.
Section 28
Direct access to civil information
1. Entities authorized to directly access the database shall adopt the administrative and
technical measures required to ensure that the information cannot be improperly obtained
or used for a purpose other than that permitted.
2. Direct searches or attempted searches of information on civil identification remain
electronically recorded for a period of not less than one year, and its recording may be
subject to adequate control by the identification services that may, to this effect, request
from the respective entities the clarifications deemed convenient.
Section 29
Access by third parties
1. Descendants, ascendants, and the spouse, tutor or guardian of the holder of the
information or, in case of death of the latter, his or her presumable heirs, provided that
they show a legitimate interest and there is no risk of interfering in the private life of the
holder of such information, may also have access to civil identification information.
2. The Minister of Justice may, upon a well-founded request, and after consultation with
the National Director of Registries and Notarial Services, authorise access to civil
identification information by other entities, for purposes of scientific research or of
statistics, provided that the persons concerned are unidentifiable, there is no risk of
interfering in the holder’s private life and the information is not used for purposes
inconsistent with those which have determined its collection.
8

Section 30
Right to information and access to data
1. Any person has the right to know the contents of the record or records relating to him
or her.
2. The exact reproduction of the records referred to in subsection (1) above, with the
indication of the meaning of any codes or abbreviations contained therein, is provided at
the request of the respective holders:
(a) gratuitously, at the time the identity card is issued or changes are made to the
original record;
(b) through the payment of an amount corresponding to a half of the cost due per
certificate, in other cases.
Section 31
Correction of any inaccuracies
1. Any person has the right to require the correction of any inaccuracies, the deletion of
unduly recorded particulars and the filling of omissions.
2. It is incumbent upon the National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services to
regulate the corrective procedures.
PART III
Storage of data and documents
Section 32
Storage of particulars
1. Particulars are stored in the database up to five years after the date of death of their
holder.
2. Particulars may be stored in a historical file for 20 years from the date of passing of
their holder.
Section 33
Storage of documents
1. Identity card applications and certificates not issued by the Timorese civil registry are
stored, whenever available, in an electronic format offering conditions of security, and
then destroyed.
2. Any other documents and records relating to the functioning of the services, about
which no decision regarding their permanent validity has been made, may be destroyed
after a year has elapsed over the respective date.

9

PART IV
Security of the database
Section 34
Guarantees of security
1. The database shall be given the guarantees of security required to prevent the
consultation, modification, deletion, addition, destruction or transmission of data in a
form not permitted by the present decree-law.
2. Taking into account the security of information, the following elements are subject to
monitoring:
(a) the data formats and the respective transmission, so as to prevent them from being
read, copied, changed or deleted by any person or in an unauthorised manner;
(b) the entry of data, so as to prevent any unauthorised person from entering, as well
as from getting to know, changing or deleting, data;
(c) the automated data treatment systems, so as to prevent them from being used by
unauthorised persons, through data transmission facilities;
(d) the access to data, that the authorised persons may only have access to those data
that are of interest to the fulfilment of their legal duties;
(e) the transmission of data, so as to ensure that their use is restricted to the
authorised authorities;
(f) The entry of data into the automated treatment systems in order to check what
data have been entered, when and by whom.
Section 35
Entity in charge of the database
1. The National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services is in charge of the civil
identification database, of the categories of personal data to be recorded and of the
operations that may be applicable.
2. It incumbent upon the National Director of Registries and Notarial Services to ensure
the right to information and access to the data by the respective holders, the correction of
inaccuracies, the filling of omissions, the deletion of unduly recorded data, as well as to
make sure that the consultation or transmission of information is in compliance with the
conditions set out in the present decree-law.
3. It is incumbent upon the National Director of Registries and Notarial Services to
decide claims relating to access to civil identification information, and his or her decision
may be administratively appealed against to a superior instance.
Section 36
Secrecy

10

1. The transmission or disclosure of personal data recorded in the database may only be
done under the terms provided for in the present decree-law.
2. Civil registry and notarial officials, as well as persons who, in the exercise of their
functions, become acquainted with personal data recorded in the civil identification
database are bound by professional secrecy.
CHAPTER IV
General provisions
Section 37
Hours of attendance to the public
The hours of attendance to the public in the civil identification services, under the Civil
and Criminal Identification Service, are determined by instruction of the National
Director of Registries and Notarial Services.
Section 38
Claims
1. The granting of a claim filed by the person concerned, on grounds of mistake, implies
rectifying the identity card.
2. The loss of an identity card before its delivery gives rise to the issuance of a second
copy thereof.
3. Issuance is gratuitous in case of a mistake committed by the civil identification
services, provided that the claim has been filed within 30 days from the date of issuance
of the original identity card, and is also gratuitous in case of loss of either the application
or the identity card before its delivery to the person concerned.
Section 39
Loss or theft of an identity card
1. The loss or theft of an identity card shall be reported by the person concerned to the
civil identification service that has issued it, without prejudice to the provision of
subsection 18.4.
2. Any entity to whom a lost or stolen identity card is handed shall forward it to the
National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services.
Section 40
Identity check
1. An identity check deemed necessary by any entity, public or private, is done at the
time the identity card is displayed, and this shall be forthwith returned upon check.
11

2. Any public or private entity is forbidden to retain or hold an identity card, except in
cases expressly provided for by law or following a decision made by a judicial authority.
Section 41
External service
1. The collection of the elements required for an identity card application may be
conducted at the place where the person concerned is, if the latter shows justifiable
difficulty going to the reception services.
2. The payment of an added fee is due for the rendering of external service, the transport
cost required for the trip being supported by the person concerned.
3. The amount referred to in subsection (2) above is not charged where such external
service is requested by a prison officer under circumstances of recognized urgency or
where inmates cannot move.
Section 42
Fees
Fees due for the issuance of an identity card, for the rendering of an external service and
for certificates and information on civil identification are determined by a joint order of
the Ministry of Planning and Finance and of the Ministry of Justice, in which the
beneficiaries of fee exemption will be determined.
Section 43
Forms
1. The formats and prices of the identity card application form and of the identity card
issuance form, as well as of the information application form, are approved by an order of
the Minister of Justice, following a proposal of the National Directorate of Registries and
Notarial Services, such forms being exclusive to the latter.
2. Under no circumstance may identity card application forms be made available to the
public before issuance, nor shall their distribution among the different reception services,
for whatever purpose, be permitted.
3. Identity card application forms may be sold to the public in establishments authorised
by the National Director of Registries and Notarial Services.
CHAPTER V
Penalising provisions
Section 44
Breach of rules relating to files

12

Whoever obtains, provides to another person, or makes use, in an illicit manner, of data
or information contained in civil identification files, diverting such data or information
from its legal purpose, is punished under the terms of the penal law.
Section 45
Falsification of official models
The falsification of the official identity card form, the use of such falsified forms and the
falsification of other official forms pertaining to the civil identification service shall
constitute a crime punishable under the terms provided for the crime of falsification.
Section 46
Retention or holding of an identity card
Whoever illegitimately retains or holds someone else’s identity card is punished under
the terms of the criminal law.
Section 47
Unauthorised sale of exclusive forms
1. The sale of official forms exclusive to the civil identification services, without prior
authorization, constitutes an offense punishable under the terms of the criminal law.
CHAPTER VI
Transitional and final and provisions
Section 48
Identity cards issued under UNTAET transitional provisions
1. An identity card application shall be accompanied by the elements required by section
19 of the present decree-law and also by a photocopy of the residency card issued under
the terms of UNTAET Regulation No. 2001/3, where applicable.
2. Upon delivery of an identity card issued under the terms of the present decree-law, the
person concerned shall return the original identity card obtained under the UNTAET
Regulation referred to in subsection (1) above.
Section 49
Existing supporting documents
1. An identity card is not granted automatically upon presentation of the previous card
issued under UNTAET legislation.
2. The National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services is the entity holding the
existing supporting documents relating to the residency card regulated by UNTAET
Regulation No. 2001/3, which shall be checked in their entirety, and used to the extent

13

that they are consistent with the documents required by the present decree-law, forming a
part of the background information necessary to the issuance of an identity card.
Section 50
Revocation
1. All legislation contrary to the provisions of the present decree-law and especially the
relevant legal provisions contained in UNTAET Regulation No. 2001/3 are hereby
revoked.
2. The long-term residency card expires immediately after the present decree-law comes
into force.
3. The issuance of the new identity card model begins on a date to be established by an
order of the Minister of Justice, according to a special timeframe, and the transitional
validity of the habitual residency card as established by UNTAET Regulation No. 2001/3
shall last until such a date as set out in the timeframe.
Section 51
Data of entry into force of the present decree-law
The present decree-law comes into force ten days after its publication.
Seen and approved by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2003. The Prime Minister
[Signed]
(Mari Bim Amude Alkatiri
The Minister of Justice
[Signed]
(Domingos Maria Sarmento)
Promulgated on 22 January 2004.
To be published.
The President of the Republic
[Signed]
(Kay Rala Xanana Gusmão)
14

