SWAZILAND

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
VOL. Ll]

MBABANE, Wednesday, JULY 31 st 2013

[No. 97

CONTENTS
No.

Page

PART B - ACT
10. The Swaziland Communications Commission Act, 2013

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

Sl

PART B
THE SWAZILAND COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION ACT, 2013

Act No. 10 of2013
1 ASSENT

MSWATI 111
KING OF SWAZILAND
25th July, 2013

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Section
I . Short title and commencement.
2. Interpretation.

PART 11
SWAZILAND COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
3, Establishment of Commission.

4. Seal of Commission.
5. Impartiality and transparency of Commission.
6. General functions of Commission.
7. Primary functions of Commission.
8. Secondary functions of Commission.
PART 111
BOARD OF COMMISSION
9. Establishment of Board.
10.Composition of Board.
I l. Disqualification from membership.

12. Functions of Board.
13. Remuneration of members.
14. Vacation of office.
15. Filling of vacancies.
16. Resignation.
17. Removal from office for gross misconduct.
18. Suspension.
19. Proceedings and committees of Board•
PART Iv
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND OTHER EMPLOYEES OF
COMMISSION
20. Appointment of Chief Executive Officer.
21. Term of office of Chief Executive Officer.
22. Duties and responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer.
23. Chief Financial Officer.
24. Auditors.
25. Other employees.
26. Employees not to be shareholder in licensee.
27. Pension and other financial schemes for employees.
28. Indemnity of employees.
PART V
CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS
29. Advisory Committees.
30. Disclosure of confidential information.
31. Cooperation with other authorities.
32. Consultation process.
33. Annual National Communications Forum.

34. Procedures for applications for authorisations.
35. Maintenance of public register for authorisations.
36, Investigation of complaints and ex-officio investigations.
37. Decisions of Commission.

PART VI
POWERS, ENFORCEMENT AND SANCTIONS
38. General powers of Commission.
39. Power to request information.
40. Additional powers of Commission.
41. Obstruction of Commission in exercise of powers.
42. Sanctions.
43. Administrative fine.
PART Vil
REVIEW OF DECISIONS AND APPEALS

44. Reviews and appeals.
45. Communications Appeals Board.
46. Jurisdiction of Appeals Board.
47. Procedure before Appeals Board.
48. Appeal from decisions of Appeals Board.
PART Vill
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
49. Funds of Commission.
50. Financial year.
51. Annual budget.
52. Accounts.
53. Annual report.
PART rx

TRANSITIONAL AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
54. Regulations.
55. Transfer of regulatory powers and savings.
56. Transitional provisions.
PART X
AMENDMENTS
57. Amendment of Swaziland Television Authority Act.
58. Amendment of Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications Act.
Schedule - Proceedings of Board
AN ACT

ENTITLED
AN ACT to establish a Swaziland Communications Commission; provide for the
appointment of a Board of Directors of the Commission; provide for the regulatory functions
of the Commission with regard to electronic communications, data protection in electronic
communications, postal services, electronic commerce and broadcasting; transfer the
regulatory powers and functions of the Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation, relating to communications, as provided under the Swaziland Posts and
Telecommunications Act, 1983, to the Commission; transfer the regulatory powers and
functions of the Swaziland Television Authority, relating to the issuance of a licence to
conduct a television service, as provided under the Swaziland Television Authority Act,
1983, to the Commission; provide for the establishment of a Communications Appeals
Board; and provide for incidental matters.

ENACTED by the King and the Parliament of Swaziland.
PART 1
PRELIMINARY

Short íiÍle and commencement.
l. This Act may be cited as the Swaziland Communications Commission Act, 2013, and
shall come into force on a date to be determined by the Minister by notice in the Gazette.

Interpretation.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

"access" has the meaning assigned to it in the Electronic Communications Act,
2010;
"advisory committee" means an advisory committee established in accordance with
section 29;

"Appeals Board" means the Communications Appeals Board established by section
45(1)•,

"authorisation" means a licence or individual right of use that a person may hold or be
granted under any law which the Commission is entitled to administer;
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Commission, established in terms of section
9;
"broadcasting" means the provision of vision, sound, multimedia and data service,
principally intended for delivery of news, entertainment and education to the general public;

"broadcasting service" means a service that delivers television programs or radio
programs to persons having equipment appropriate for receiving that service,
whether the delivery uses the radio frequency spectrum, cable, optical fibre, satellite
or any other means or a combination of those means;
"Chief Executive Officer" means the person appointed, under section 20, as Chief Executive
Officer of the Commission;

"Commission" means the Swaziland Communications Commission established by
section 3;
"committee" means a committee of the Board, established under section 19(3);

"communications" includes electronic communications, postal services, electronic
commerce and broadcasting;
"Corporation" means the Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
established under the Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act,
1983;
"Court" means the High Court of Swaziland;
"decision" includes any directive, determination, authorisation condition, measure,
requirement or specification made by the Commission;

"electronic commerce" means a transaction, business or services of a commercial
nature generated, communicated, processed, sent, received, recorded or conveyed
through electronic means;
"electronic commerce infrastructure" means transmission systems, routing equipment or
other resources which permit the conveyance of business transactions and the conducting of
commerce through electronic means;
"electronic communications network" has the meaning assigned to it in the Electronic
Communications Act, 2010;
"electronic communications service" has the meaning assigned to it in the Electronic
Communications Act, 20 1 0;
"employee" means a person employed by the Commission;

"end-user" means a person who has contracted for, orwho requests, any
communications service for private purposes as the final user in the supply chain;
"interconnection" has the meaning assigned to it in the Electronic Communications
Act, 2010;
"licence" means an authorisation granted by the Commission under this Act for the provision
of electronic communications networks or services, Internet services, postal services and
broadcasting services;
"licensee" means a person who is the holder of, or deemed to be the holder of, a licence to
provide any kind of communications service under the remit of the Commission in
accordance with this Act;

"member" means a member of the Board;
"Minister" means, the Minister responsible for communications, and "Ministry" has
a corresponding meaning;
"postal service" has the meaning assigned to it in the Swaziland Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation Act, 1983;
"public broadcasting service" means
(a) any broadcasting service provided by the Swaziland Public Broadcasting
Corporation;
(b) a broadcasting service provided by any other statutory body; or
(c) a broadcasting service provided by a person who receives funding from the

State.
"public emergency" shall have the same meaning as attributed to it in section 36 and 37 of
the Constitution of the Kingdom of Swaziland Act, 2005 and shall include state security;

"Standing Committee" has the meaning assigned to it in the Public Enterprises
(Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989.
PART 11
SWAZILAND COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

Establishment of Commission.

3.
(l) There shall be a Commission to be known as the Swaziland
Communications Commission which shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal, capable of suing and being sued in its corporate name
and with power, subject to this Act, to do all such things as a body corporate may by
law do or perform.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this Act or any other written law, the
Comm ission shall be independent in the performance of the functions of the
Commission, and shall not be subject to the direction or control of any person
or authority.
(3) The Commission is a Category A public enterprise as contemplated
in the Public Enterprises (Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989.
Seal of Commission.

4.

(1) The seal of the Commission shall be such device as may be determined
by the Board and shall be kept by the Chief Executive Officer.
(2) The affixing of the seal shall be authenticated by the chairperson or any
other person authorised to do so by a resolution of the Board.
(3) Any document purporting to be under the seal of the Commission or issued
on behalf of the Commission shall be received in evidence and shall be deemed to
be executed or issued by the Commission without further proof, unless the contrary
is proved.
Impartiality and transparency of Commission.

5.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Act, the Commission shall carry out
functions entrusted to the Commission by or under this Act or any other law in an objective,
transparent, proportionate and non-discriminatory manner.
Generalfunctions of Commission.

6.

The general functions of the Commission are to V (a) regulate and supervise the operation of electronic communications networks and
the provision of electronic communications services in Swaziland, including the
regulation of data protection in electronic communications;
v(b) regulate and supervise the provision of postal services and electronic commerce;
(c) regulate and supervise the provision of radio and television broadcasting services
and the content of those services;
v(d) promote the development of innovative, secure, modern and competitive
communications infrastructure and the delivery of related services;

(e) ensure freedom of provision of communications services and fillther
ensure that those services are not limited, except when strictly necessary;
(f) ensure a wide range and variety of communications services;
(g) ensure that all communications services are provided in a manner that will
best promote economic and social development;

(h) ensure non-discrimination and equality of treatment in all matters under
the remit of the Commission;
(i) promote efficient management and human resource development within the
communications industry;
vZG)

promote the interests of end-users and licensees as regards the quality of all
communications services and equipment within the remit ofthe Commission;

v(k) administer certain aspects of the Competition Act, 2007, as they relate to the
sectors regulated by the Commission;
v{l) administer certain aspects of the Fair Trading Act, 2001, as they relate
to the sectors regulated by the Commission; and tam) administer certain
aspects of the Standards and Quality Act, 2003.
Primaryfunctions of Commission.

7.

Without derogating from the functions of the Commission under section 6, the
Commission shall u/(a) advise the Government on policy and legislative measures in respect of the
provision and operation of communications networks and communications
services, including radio and television broadcasts, postal services, electronic
commerce and data protection in electronic communications;
J(b) formulate such rules and regulations to be issued by the Minister as may be
necessary for the implementation and proper administration of the policy and
legislative measures referred to in paragraph (a);

(c) provide information and issue guidelines or codes to the public and to commercial
entities with respect to the matters which the Commission regulates;

(d) establish an electronic communications code;
(e) establish quality of service codes and content and censorship codes;
v/(f) monitor the programme schedules of any person providing broadcasting services;

(g) grant any authorisation for the carrying out of any operation or activity relating to
any matter within the remit of the Commission;

(h) monitor authorisation conditions;
(i) establish the minimum qualifications to be possessed by any person who is engaged
or employed in any activity regulated by the Commission;

(j) generally regulate, monitor and keep under review all practices, operations and
activities within the remit of the Commission;

v(k) on approval by the Minister, allocate and authorise the use of radio frequency
spectrum;
RI) on the approval by the Minister, process applications for the allocation of satellite
orbital locations;

(m) establish and run frequency and other monitoring stations;
v/ (n) on approval by the Minister, draw up, establish, amend and enforce a national
numbering plan and perform block number allocations;
* (o) establishminimumqualityandsecuritystandards foranyofthe communications services,
products, operations and activities relating to any matter regulated by the
Commission and regulate such measures as may be necessary to ensure public and
private safety;
J(p) ensure compliance with national and international communications standards and
obligations laid down by international communications agreements to which
Swaziland is a party;
SIO
u(q) where necessary, and in adherence to the Swaziland Environmental Authority,
establish measures for the protection of the environment in the provision of the
services, products, operations or activities relating to any matter regulated by the
Commission;

/(r) regulate interconnection and access systems between licensees and users of
electronic communications services;
v/ (s) ensure fair competition in all communications services, products, operations
and activities which the Commission regulates; v/(t) determine issues concerning
monopoly and discriminatory practices;
(u) provide and enforce accounting standards, where necessary;
J(v) establish a pricing system to protect end-users from excessive price increase and
to avoid unfair price competition;
(w)ensure end-user protection and privacy;
ax) recommend a policy to the Minister for a universal service or access programme and
administer a universal service or access programme, where necessary;

(y) ensure the operation ofcommunications networks and communications services
during times of public emergency;

(z) establish, with assistance the Ministv, a National Emergency Office to coordinate
affairs between Govemment agencies, electronic comm unications, broadcasting
and other utility providers in times of national emergencies;

(aa) recommend for the approval ofthe Minister a national priority restoration policy
and practice to ensure that adequate communications facilities are available on a
preferential basis to public authorities, such as, fire authorities, the police service,
hospitals, the defence force, etc., in times of public emergencies as declared by
the Government or as a result of network outages;

(bb) determine complaints and carry out studies, research and investigations as
required in relation to any matter within the remit ofthe Commission;
(cc) make such decisions as may be necessary in carrying out the functions of the
Commission; and

(dd) perform such other functions as may be assigned to the Commission by the
Minister.

Sl i
Secondaryfunctions of Commission.
8, In addition to the functions provided for under sections 6 and 7, the Commission shall -

(a) represent the communications sector ofSwaziland at national and international
for a and at organizations relating to the functions of the Commission, and coordinate the participation of any interested groups;

(b) collect and dissem inate information for use by the electronic communications
industry, end-users and prospective investors;

(c) collaborate with educational and research institutions in order to promote
knowledge and understanding in the various fields of communications;

(d) establish advisory committees composed of individuals with appropriate
expertise to fairly represent the views and interests of end-users and providers
and advise the Commission on specific or technical questions;

(e) encourage the establishment of a communications association representing all
types of service providers, whereby the industry may interact amongst itself to
co-ordinate and resolve issues that impact upon the industry and the end-user;

(f) conduct, at a minimum, an annual National Communications Forum which shall
present an opportunity for the public and the industry to discuss items of interest
regarding the state ofthe communications sectors, their performance and enduser satisfaction; and

(g) perform any other function that is related or connected to the functions provided
for in this section.

PART 111

BOARD OF COMMISSION
Establishment ofthe Board.
9.
There shall be a Board of Directors of the Commission, which shall be the
governing body of the Commission and shall be responsible for carrying out the
objects of, and exercising the powers and functions conferred on, the Commission.
Composition ofthe Board.
10.
The Board consists of seven members appointed in terms of section 6 of the Public
Enterprises (Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989.

S12

Disqualification from membership.
I l. A person is not qualified to be appointed as a member of the Board if that person (a) is a
declared insolvent or bankrupt;

(b) has made an assignment to or arrangement or composition with creditors that
has not been rescinded or set aside by the court;
(c) has, in terms of any law in force in Swaziland, within the past two years
immediately preceding the date of appointment, been convicted of a criminal
offence of which dishonesty is an element;
(d) or the spouse or any other immediate relative of that person, holds or has an
interest in an authorisation issued under this Act;
(e) is not a citizen of Swaziland who is ordinarily resident in the country; or
(f) has any other direct or indirect financial interest in, or other relationship with, a
person providing a network or service under the remit ofthe Commission.

Functions ofthe Board.
12. (l) The Board shall review the activities of the Commission during regular meetings
held with the Chief Executive Officer or the authorised designate of the Chief
Executive Officer, in order to ensure that the Commission acts in the interests of
Swaziland and the end-users, and to monitor the general administration of the
Commission.
(2) In particular, during the meetings of the Board referred to in subsection (l), the Board shall
-

(a)

examine the management reports of the Commission as presented to the

Board by the Chief Executive Officer;
(b)

approve the annual report of the activities of the Commission; (c) settle

the financial statement for the end of the financial year;

(d) adopt the budget of the following financial year; and
(e) deliberate on any other issue as required or as the Minister may direct.
(3) The Boardmay make recommendations to the Ministerregarding communications policy or
regarding the operation of the Commission.
(4) The Board may delegate to the Chief Executive Officer, such powers and duties of the
Board as the Board may consider appropriate to enable the Chief Executive Officer, under the
general direction of the Board, to conduct the affairs of the Commission.

S13

Remuneration ofmembers.
13, Members of the Board and members of a committee shall be paid such remuneration,
allowances and travel expenses, incurred only in connection with the service of a member, as
the Minister responsible for finance may determine.
Vacation of office.
14.
(l) A member shall vacate office and the office of a member shall become vacant
if the member -

(a) becomes disqualified for any of the reasons mentioned in section I l ;
(b) is declared bankrupt or insolvent;
(c) is absent from three consecutive meetings of the Board without the leave of the
chairperson;

(d) is dismissed for any gross misconduct in accordance with section 17; (e) has the
services of that member terminated in accordance with this Act;

(f) is convicted of an offence under this Act or convicted of any criminal offence of
which dishonesty is an element, or is sentenced to imprisonment for a period of six
months or more;

(g) resigns the office of member in accordance with section 16; or
(h) becomes mentally or physically incapable of performing the duties of a member.
(2) A member shall also vacate office where a spouse or any other immediate relative of
the member holds or acquires an interest in a licensee or becomes the holder of an authorisation
or any other prohibited interest as described under section 11(t).
Filling of vacancies.
15.
Where the office of a member becomes vacant before the expiry of the term of office,
the Minister shall, in accordance with section 6 of the Public Enterprises (Control and
Monitoring) Act, 1989, appoint another member in place of the member who vacates office, but
that member shall hold office only for the unexpired part of the term of office.

Resignation.
16.
A member may resign the office of a member by giving not less than three months
written notice to the Minister.

Removalfrom officefor gross misconduct.
17.

(l) A member may be removed from office for gross misconduct.

S14

(2) Where the Minister becomes aware of any alleged gross misconduct by a member, the
Minister shall appoint a tribunal, headed by a person of high integrity, to investigate the alleged
misconduct, and the Minister shall act in accordance with recommendations of the tribunal.
Suspension.
18.
The Minister shall, in writing, suspend from office any member against whom an
investigation by a tribunal has commenced, or criminal proceedings have been instituted, for an
offence in respect of which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed.

Proceedings and committees ofBoard.
(1) The proceedings of the Board and matters relating to the proceedings of the
Board shall be governed by the Schedule.
19.

(2) The Minister may, by notice in the Gazette, amend the Schedule.
(3) The Board may, for the purpose of performing the functions of the Board under
this Act, establish such committees as the Board considers appropriate and delegate to
any of those committees such of the functions of the Board as the Board considers
appropriate.
(4) The Board may appoint as members of a committee persons who are or are not
members, except that at least one member of a committee shall be a member, who shall
be chairperson of the committee,
(5) A person serving as a member of a committee shall hold office for such period as the
Board may determine.

(6) Subject to any specific or general direction of the Board, a committee may regulate its
own procedure.
PART JV
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICEER AND OTHER
EMPLOYEES OF COMMISSION
ChiefExecutive Officer,
20.
(l) There shall be a Chief Executive Officer who shall be appointed and dismissed in
accordance with section 8 of the Public Enterprises (Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989.

(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed on such terms and conditions as
the Minister may, in consultation with the Standing Committee, determine
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall be a person having relevant qualification and
considerable experience in electronic communications, broadcasting, postal, commerce,
finance, law or administration.

S15

Term of office of ChiefExecutive Officer.
21.
The Chief Executive Officer shall hold office for a term of three years from the date of
appointment and shall be eligible for nomination for re-appointment.

Duties and responsibilities of ChiefExecutive Officer.
22.
(l) Subject to this Act and the general supervision and control of the Board, the Chief
Executive Officer shall -

(a) be the head of the Commission and be responsible for the day-to-day
administration of the Commission;
(b) implement the policies and programmes approved by the Minister or agreed upon
by the Board;

(c) manage the funds and property of the Commission;
(d) administer, organize, supervise and generally control the employees of the
Commission;

(e) keep the Board informed about the activities of the Commission; and
(f) keep records of all the transactions of the Commission.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall represent the Commission in the day-to-day dealings
of the Commission with Government and other third parties.
(3) The Chief Executive Officer may, for specific matters, delegate some of the powers and
prerogatives of the Chief Executive Officer to employees of the Commission holding
administrative posts, subject to the approval of the Board.
(4) Where the Chief Executive Officer is temporarily absent from Swaziland or is
temporarily incapacitated from performing the functions of the office of Chief Executive
Officer, the Minister shall, on the recommendation of the board and subject to section 8 of the
Public Enterprises (Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989, appoint a person to act as Chief
Executive Officer during that period of absence or incapacity.

(5) A person appointed under subsection (4) may exercise all the powers conferred upon
the Chief Executive Officer from the date of appointment of that person.

Chief Financial Officer.
(l) There shall be a Chief Financial Officer of the Commission who shall be
appointed and dismissed in accordance with section 8(2) of the Public Enterprises
(Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989.
23.

(2) The Chief Financial Officer shall -

S16

(a) keep all proper books of account and other books and records in relation to the funds,
undeltakings, activities and property of the Commission;

(b) prepare such statements of account as may be necessary to indicate the financial
status of the Commission at the end of each financial year;

(c) cause the accounts of the Commission to be examined, audited and reported on
annually by auditors appointed under section 24;

(d) carry out any other duties assigned to the Chief Financial Officer by the Chief
Executive Officer; and

(e) be answerable to the Chief Executive Officer.
Auditors.
24.
(l) A reputable firm of auditors shall be appointed in the manner provided in section 9
of the Public Enterprises (Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989, as auditors of the Commission
for such period as the Minister shall determine.

(2) No person may be appointed as an auditor if that person (a) is a member of the Board or an employee of the Commission;
(b) is a partner of a member of the Board or a partner of any employee of the
Commission;

(c) is an employer or employee of a member of the Board or of the
Commission;
(d) or the spouse or any other immediate relative of that person, holds or has an
interest in an authorisation issued under this Act;
(e) has any other direct or indirect financial interest in, or other relationship with,
any person providing a network or service under the remit of the Commission,
except that if any such prohibited interest vests by will or succession in the
member for the sole benefit of that member, the member shall, within three
months after appointment as a member, dispose of the interest; or
(f) has any pecuniary interest in the Commission or in any of the activities of the
Commission.
Other employees.
25.
The Commission shall, on such terms and conditions as the Commission may,
with the approval of the Board, determine, engage such other employees as the
Commission may consider appropriate for the effective discharge of the functions of the
Commission.

S17

Employee not to be shareholder in licensee.
26.
An employee, Commissioner or Board Member shall declare shareholdership in any
licensee which the Commission regulates, and shall not be involved in the management of any
network or service under the remit of the Commission.

Pension and otherfinancial schemesfor employees.
The Commission shall establish pension or superannuation schemes and such
other financial schemes as the Commission may determine for the benefit of the
employees of the Commission.
27.

Indemnity of employees.
28.
An act or omission by an employee, done in good faith in the execution of the
duties of that employee, shall not render the employee personally liable to any civil
action or other civil proceedings in respect of that act or omission.

PART V
CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS
Advisory committees.

For the efficient discharge of the duties of the Commission, the Commission
may, as the Commission considers appropriate, establish such advisory committees,
comprised of experts or individuals possessed of appropriate expertise, to fairly
represent views and interests of end-users and licensees and to advise members, officers
and employees of the Commission.
29.

Disclosure of confidential information.
30.
(l) In this section "confidential information" means any information which is considered
by the Commission to be confidential and in relation to which the Commission has notified the
persons concerned of their duty of non-disclosure.

(2) Except where otherwise provided by law, a person shall not knowingly disclose
confidential information obtained by that person while performing the duties of a member,
officer or employee of the Commission or of an adviser or consultant to the Commission, unless
that person is duly authorised by the Commission to do so.

(3) A person who contravenes subsection (2) commits an offence and is on conviction liable
to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand emalangeni or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years, or to both.
(4) Subsection (2) does not prevent the disclosure of any infonnation to the Commission
or, by or on behalf of the Commission to the Minister or as may be required by law.

Cooperation with other authorities.

S18
31.
The Commission shall, where the Commission considers it appropriate, consult with
the various competent authorities responsible for competition issues, fair trading and consumer
affairs and for such other areas as may impact the sectors regulated by the Commission on
matters of common interest in connection with the application of this Act and of any other law
which the Commission is entitled to administer.

Consultation process.
32. (l)

Except in relation to -

(a) any complaint being dealt with in accordance with section 36;
(b) the exercise of any enforcement powers of the Commission under Part VI; or
(c) cases where the Commission considers that there is an urgent need to act in order
to safeguard competition and protect the interests of end-users in accordance with
law,
where the Commission intends to make a decision which has a significant impact on a market
which the Commission regulates, the Commission shall make the proposed decision publicly
available as a consultation document and shall allow any interested parties the oppoftunity to
comment on the proposed decision with or without the opportunity for oral presentation.

(2) The consultation document referred to in subsection (l) shall specify the legal
authority of the decision, a description of the subject of the decision or the issue
resulting in the making of that decision and the time limits within which the comments
are to be submitted.
(3) The Commission shall have the discretion to decide on the time limits for response
referred to in subsection (2), except that (a) such period shall not be less than one calendar month from the date of issue
of the draft decision; or
(b) where the decision to be taken is the adoption of a new law, the Minister shall cause
a draft of the proposed legislation to be published in the Gazette.

(4) Publication of the consultation document referred to in subsection (1) and
consultation procedures of the Commission shall be done in the Gazette and on the
website of the Commission, and the Commission shall establish a single information
point through which all open consultations can be accessed.
(5) The results of any consultations under this section shall be made publicly
available by the Commission through the Gazette and the website of the Commission,
except in the case of information which the Commission considers to be confidential.
Annual National Communications Forum.

S19

33.
The Commission shall conduct an annual National Communications Forum
where all interested parties shall have the opportunity to discuss items of interest
regarding the state of the national industries regulated by the Commission, the
performance of the industries and end-user satisfaction.
Procedures for applicationsfor authorisations.
34.

(I) The Commission shall establish procedures to be followed in the application

for authorisations, and such procedures shall prescribe the (a) format of the application;
(b) full details to be provided;
(c) publication of the application;
(d) invitation to objections; and
(e) period for replies to objections.
(2) The Commission shall establish objective, transparent and non-discriminatory
procedures to be followed in the determination of applications for authorisations.
(3) Where the auihorisation to be issued is to be limited in number, the Commission
may make use of competitive or comparative selection procedures,
Maintenance ofpublic registerfor authorisations.
35.

The ission shall maintain a public register, in such detail as the Commission may
determine, of authorisations that the Commission grants, amends or revokes.

In vesiigation ofcomplaints and ex officio investigations.
36.

(l) The Commission shall establish procedures for the investigation of any alleged
contravention by any licensee of a law or terms and conditions of a license which the
Commission is entitlèd to administer and which contravention has been brought to the attention
of the Commission either -

(a) through a complaint filed by another licensee of the same service or

(b) through complaint filed by an end-user; or
(c) ex officio.
(2) The Commission shall only be obliged to commence an investigation under
subsection (l or (b) if the Commission has evidence of the fact that the parties to the
complaint hft(l attempted to resolve the matter between themselves, prior to referring
the lùatler to the Commission.

S20

(3) The otillìiission may decide not to initiate an investigation referred to in
subsection ( j ) (a) whitre Commission is satisfied that other means of resolving the matter in
u manner are available to the parties; or

(b) if legal

in relation to the matter have been initiated by any
parly to the complaint,

and, in any such case, the Commission shall, in writing, inform the parties of that decision.

(4) An investifžation under this section shall be conducted in accordance with the
rules of natural justice, giving each party adequate opportunity to make written
submissions, with or without the opportunity for oral presentation.
(5) The Commission shall complete an investigation commenced under subsection
(l)(a) or (b) by issuing a decision of the investigation within a period of six months
from the date of the submission of the complaint,

(6) In deciding the outcome of any complaints referred to the Commission under
this section, the Commission may issue directives to the licensee against whom the
complaint has been lodged, requiring that licensee to comply with any measure that the
Commission may specify for the resolution of the matter.
(7) A directive referred to in subsection (6) may include an order to effect (he
reimbursement of payments received or to make compensation payments in accordance
with law, and those payments may also include the whole or palt of the costs of any
party relating to the engagement of a lawyer, or of a technical adviser, or both, in
relation to the complaint.
(8) The decision of the Commission shall be issued in accordance with section 40,
and that decision shall be binding upon the parties, subject to Part V Il.
Decisions of Commission.

37.
(1) A decision issued by the Commission and any amendment or revocation of that
decision shall be in writing and shall state the reasons upon which the decision is based.
(2) The decisions of the Commission shall be published in the Gazette and
on the website of the Commission and shall become effective after thirty days
from the date of publication of the decision.
(3) The Commission shall have discretionary power to determ ine an early effective
date of its decision where circumstances demand.

PART VI
POWERS, ENFORCEMENT AND SANCTIONS
General Powers of Commission.

S21

38.
For the proper performance of the functions of the Commission as provided for in this
Act, the Commission may
(a) issue the necessary authorizations;
(b) subject to Part VIl, makè administrative decisions and issue guidelines necessary for
implementing this Act and any other laws which fall under the remit of the Commission;

(c) request any information which the Commission may consider appropriate in accordance
with section 39;

(d) make use of the additional powers provided for under section 40, where necessary;
(e) subject to the protection of any information which the Commission considers confidential,
publish such information as would, in the opinion of the Commission, contribute to an open
and competitive market;

(f) investigate complaints arising between licensees, between licensees and end-users,
and commence ex officio investigations in accordance with section 36, and enforce
the decisions of the commission;
(g) provide a copy of any broadcast to any person feeling aggrieved by the content of that
broadcast;

(h) issue subpoenas for the attendance and examination of witnesses and production of any
docüment at the hearings of the Commission and exercise such powers inherent in a court
of law as may be necessary during the hearings of the Commission;

(i) institute an administrative fee on licensees as required for the administration of the
fižnctions of the Commission in accordance with the laws which the Cotnmission is entitled
to administer;

(j) confiscate or disconnect any apparatus that is unlawfully possessed, installed,

or

operated;

(k) subject to section 42, impose the requisite fines on any licensee or other person who
contravenes any law which the Commission is entitled to administer, or any decision issued
by the Commission;

(l) borrow money, purchase, hold, manage and dispose of any property whether litoveable or
immovable;

(m)

enter into any contract or other transaction as may be necessary; (n) charge for services

provided by the Commission;

(o) make decisions and issue guidelines for the administrative operations of the
Commission;

S22

(p) delegate the authority of the Commission with the exception of the powers of the
Commission to license;
(q) establish such internal organs of the Commission, including the creation of
ISions and offices, as the Commission may consider appropriate Ibr (he
exercise of the powers of the Commission; and (r) appoint, promote, remove and discipline
employees.

Power to request information.
39. (l) The Commission may require any licensee or any other person to provide the
Commission with any information, including financial information and programme schedules,
which the Commission considers necessary for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this
Act or any other law which the Commission is entitled to administer, or with any decision
issued by the Commission.
(2) Any information required by the Commission under this section shall be
proportionate to the performance of the functions and obligations of the Commission
under this Act, and in requiring any such information, the Commission shall state the
reason for which the Commission requires the information requested.
(3) Any licensee or other person who is notified with a requirement under this
section shall provide the requested information within the time limits and according to
any level of detail as may be requested by the Commission,
(4) A person who contravenes subsection (3) commits an offence and is, on
conviction, liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand emalangeni or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.
(5) In complying with this section, a licensee or other person shall have the right
to request the Commission to treat any information provided by that person as
confidential for commercial reasons, and shall give those reasons to the Commission,
but the Commission shall have sole discretion to decide whether the information
indicated as confidential should be treated as confidential.

Additionalpowers of Commission.
40. Without prejudice to sections 38 and 39, in situations which present difficulties, and in
exceptional circumstances, the Commission may (a) at any time enter any premises or other place which the Commission reasonably
suspects as being connected with any activities regulated by the Commission and
search and inspect those premises or other place together with any books,
documents or records found on those premises;

(b) require any person to produce for inspection and take extracts from any books,
documents or records relating to any activities regulated by the Commission which
are under the control of that person and, in the case of information in a non-legible
form to reproduce that information in a legible form, and to give the Commission

S23
all the information requested in relation to any entries in those books, documents or
records;

(c) remove and retain the books, documents or records refered to in paragraphs
(a) and (b) for such period as may be reasonable for further exam ination;

(d) require any person to maintain the books, documents or records referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) for such period, as may be reasonable, as the Commission
directs; and

(e) undefiake tests and measurements of any machinery, apparatus, appliances and
other equipment as the Commission may consider necessary.

Obstruction of Commission in exercise ofpowers.
41.

A person who (a) obstructs, impedes or assaults an officer of the Commission or any other person
duly authorised by the Commission to act on behalf of the Commission in the
exercise of a power under this section;
(b) fails or refuses to comply with a requirement under this section;
(c) alters, 'presses or destroys any books, documents or records which the person
concerned has been required to produce, or may reasonably expect bc fcquu•ed to
produce; or
(d) falsely represents oneself to be an officer of the Commission ora person authoriscd
by the Commission to act on behalf of the Commission,

commits an offence and is, on conviction, liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand emalangeni
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.

Sanctions.
421 (l ) Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Act or any other law which the
Commission entiljed to enforce, the Commission may take the following measures in respect
any person who contravenes this Act or of any other law which the Commission is led to
administer, or who fails to comply with any decision made by the Commission (a) the imposition of an administrative fine in accordance with this section and section
43;
(b) the withdrawal or suspension of any authorisation in cases where the contraventions
under this section are very significant or committed repeatedly.
(2') í)eibre prnc,eecling with any of the measures under subsection (l), the Commission shall
give the person concerned written notice ofthe alleged contravention at least thirty days prior
to the taking of that measure, allowing the person concerned the opportunity to rectify that
contravention or to make submissions, except that -

S24

(a) the notice shall contain an explanation of the perceived contravention, details of
the measures being contemplated and the amount of the fine, if any; and

(b) the Commission may impose such conditions as the Commission may consider
reasonable in the circumstances.

(3) If the person concerned rectifies the contravention or gives a valid reason for the alleged
contravention within the period mentioned in the notice, and agrees in writing to abide by any
conditions that the Commission may impose, the Commission shall not proceed with the
measures contemplated in subsection (l).
(4) If, after the expiry of the period mentioned in the notice given under subsection (l), the
Commission considers that the person concerned has not rectified the contravention, nor given
any valid reasons to justify the contravention, the Commission shall proceed as the Commission
considers appropriate in accordance with subsection (l).

(5) Notwithstanding subsection (2), where the Commission has prima facie evidence that
the contravention (a) represents an immediate and serious threat to public safety, public security, public
health; or

(b) creates or may create serious economic or operational problems for other licensees
or other persons in the market, or for end-users,
the Commission may take urgent interim measures to remedy the situation before reaching a
final decision, including the imposition of administrative fines, or may shorten the period of the
notice referred to in that subsection, except that the person against whom those measures are
being contemplated shall be given reasonable opportunity to state the arguments of that person
and propose any remedies.

dministrativefine.
43.
(l) In determining the amount of an administrative fine, regard shall be had in particular
to the nature and extent of the contravention, and the duration and impact of that contravention
on the market and On end-users.
(2) Any administrative fine imposed by the Commission in terms of subsection (l) shall be
due to the Commission as a civil debt, as if payment of the amount of the fine had been ordered
by the judgment of a court of civil jurisdiction.
PART Vil
REVIEW OF DECISIONS AND APPEALS
Reviews and appeals.

44.
(l) The Commission, on its own motion or upon appeal by an aggrieved party, may
before the expiry of a period of thirty days from the date of publication of a decision made by
the Commission, review that decision.

S25

(2) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Commission may, after thirty days but before
sixty days from the date of publication of the decision, appeal against that decision to the
Appeals Board.
(3) The filing of an application for a review of a decision of the Commission is not a
condition precedent to an appeal against any action taken by the Commission, except where the
party seeking the review was not a party to the proceeding resulting in the decision to be
appealed against, or relies on questions of fact or law upon which the Commission had no
opportunity to make submissions.
(4) The filing of an application for a review of a decision of the Commission or of an appeal
shall not excuse a party from complying with any decision made or rules issued by the
Commission, and subject to subsections (5) and (6), shall not operate in such a manner as to
stay or postpone any enforcement of that decision or rules.
(5) The Commission may postpone the effective date of a decision made by the
Commission pending a review or an appeal.
(6) Upon request by an aggrieved party, the Appeals Board may take the necessary -action
to postpone the effective date of a decision made by the Commission or to preserve the status
of rights pending the conclusion of the review proceedings.
Communic.iliions Appeals Board.

45.
(l) shall be a Communications Appeals Board the function of which is to hear
appea13 against actions and decisions of the Commission.
(2) The Appeals Board shalhbe appointed by the Minister and consists of (a) a chairperson, who shall be a legal practitioner of at least ten years experience; and
lwo ilicmbcrs who shall be selected by the chairperson of the Appeals Board from
amongst persons appointed by the Minister and having commercial, technical, or
financial experience in fields of electronic communications, postal services,
broadcasting, electronic commerce and other areas falling under the remit of the
Commission and in respect of which the Appeals Board has jurisdiction.

(3) The members of the Appeals Board shall be selected as described in subsection (2)(b)
on a case by case basis, as the chairperson of the Appeals Board considers appropriate
according to the circumstances of the case, but shall at all times comprise an economist and
another person who is technically specialised in the matter being appealed.
(4) The chairperson of the Appeals Board and members of the Appeals Board shall be
appointed for a term of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(5) The chairperson of the Appeals Board or a member of the Appeals Board may only be
removed from office by the Minister on grounds of gross negligence, conflict of interest,
incompetence, or acts or omissions unbecoming of a member of the Appeals Board.
(6) The Appeals Board shall be independent in the performance of its functions.

S26

(7) The chairperson of the Appeals Board and a member of the Appeals Board may recuse
oneself on one's own motion, or on application by any interested person, for any of the reasons
for which a judge may recuse oneself or may be required to recuse oneself in accordance with
the law applicable in Swaziland, and in such a case, another person from the persons mentioned
in subsection (2)(b) shall be appointed to sit in place of the chairperson or the member.
(8) The Minister shall designate a person to serve as secretary to the Appeals Board and
who shall serve in that capacity in accordance with the ethical standards appropriate to the
position of that person.
Jurisdiction ofAppeals Board.
46.
(1) The Appeals Board shall act upon request by an aggrieved party to decide all
relevant questions of law and shall be empowered to compel action by the Commission
considered to be unlawfully withheld or unreasonably delayed or otherwise not in accordance
with law and to hold unlawful and set aside any decision found to be arbitrary, capricious,
abusive or otherwise not in accordance with law.
(2) In subsection (1,) the words "not in accordance with law" mean (a) excess of the
Commission's jurisdiction or authority;

(b) non-observance by the Commission of procedures required by law;
(c) unsupported or insubstantial evidence; or
(d) other illegality.
Procedure before Appeals Board.
47.
(l) An appeal from a decision of the Commission shall be made by application and shall
be filed with the secretary of the Appeals Board after the expiry of a period of thirty days, but
before the expiry of a period of sixty days from the date of publication of the decision.
(2) An application for an appeal under subsection (l) shall be notified to the Commission,
which shall, not later than twenty days from the date of notification, file • a reply of the
Commission to the application, with the secretary of the Appeals Board.
(3) The Appeals Board shall, without delay, set down the appeal for hearing at the earliest
possible date, which date shall in no case be later than forty days from the date of the service of
the appeal on the Commission.

(4) In determining an appeal under this section, the Appeals Board shall take into account
the merits of the appeal, and may in whole or in part, confirm, vary or rescind the decision
appealed from, giving in writing the reasons for that decision and shall cause that decision to be
made public and communicated to the parties to the appeal.
(5) In the exercise of the functions of the Appeals Board, the Appeals Board may summon
any person to appear before it and give evidence and produce documents, and the chairperson
of the Appeals Board shall have the power to administer the oath.

S27
(6) The Appeals Board shall determine an appeal within one hundred and twenty days
from the expiry of the period by when the Commission may file a reply of the Commission to
the appeal and, in any case, shall deliver the final decision of the Appeals Board not later than
sixty days from the date when the parties declare that they have concluded with their evidence
and made their final submissions,

(7) The Appeals Board may appoint independent and impartial experts to advise the
Appeals Board on any issue that may be relevant to any appeal lodged before it and, in any
such case, the Appeals Board shall be entitled to make both provisional and final orders in
respect of the payment of the costs and fees of the experts by any of the parties to the appeal.

(8) The Minister may, subject to this Act, prescribe the procedure to be followed before
the Appeals Board, and subject to that procedure and to any other provision of this Act, the
Appeals Board may regulate its own procedure.
(9) The Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister responsible for finance, by
regulations prescribe any such fees as are considered to be necessary in relation to any
proceedings before the Appeals Board.

S28

Appealfrom decisions ofAppeals Board.
48.
A party to an appeal who feels aggrieved by a decision of the Appeals Board, may
011 a question of law, appeal to the High Court within thirty days from the date of the
decision of the Appeals Board.
PART Vill
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Funds of
Commission.

49.

(l) The funds of the Commission shall consist of -

(a) such monies as may be appropriated by Parliament for the put poses of the
Commission;

(b) such fees as the Commission may impose for authorisations issued under this
Act;

(c) all monies collected by the Corporation in respect of licences for electronic
communications which remain unused on the date of coming into force of this
Act; and

(d) such other fees or monies as the Commission may impose or make under this
Act.

(2) The Commission may, subject to the approval of the Minister (a) accept moneys by way of grants or donations from any source; and
(b) raise by way of loans or otherwise such moneys as the Commission may require
for the discharge of the functions of the Commission.

(3) There shall be paid from the funds of the Commission (a) the salaries, allowances and loans of the employees of the Commission and
allowances of the members and members of a committee;

(b) such reasonable travelling, transport and subsistence allowances for the
employees, members and members of a committee, when engaged in the
business of the Commission, at such rates as the Commission may determine;
and

(c) any other expenses incurred by the Commission in the performance of the
functions Commission.
of the

S29

(4) The Commission may invest in such manner as the Commission considers
appropriate such of the funds of the Commission as the Commission does not immediately
require for the performance of the functions of the Commission, subject to the approval of
the Minister responsible for finance.

(5) The Commission shall utilise the funds of the Commission to defray expenses in
connection with the performance of the functions of the Commission and the exercise of
the powers of the Commission under this Act.
(6) The funds of the Commission shall be administered through a bank account
approved by the Board.
(7) The Commission shall, with the approval of the Minister, issue policies and
procedural rules necessary for the proper management of the funds ofthe Commission.
(8) The Commission shall adopt and use generally accepted accounting
practices and keep proper books of accounts.
(9) The Min istermay, on receipt ofthe business plan and budget ofthe Commission,
by notice in the prescribe fees or levies and charges for authorisations, that are payable by
a y of licensees or customers set out in the notice.

(10)
Any filii(fb or revenue of the Commission remaining unused at the end of
the financial year of the Commission shall be remitted into the Universal Service or Access
Programme.

Financial year.
50.' The financial year ofthe Commission shall be a period of 12 months ending on the
31st March in each year.

Anntlíll blidget.
51.
The Commission shall submit to the Minister estimates of the income and
expenditure of the Commission for the next financial year of the Commission and a budget
for the annual operations of the Commission two months before the beginning of the
financial year.
Accounts.
52.
The Commission shall, within three months after the end of the financial year of
the Commissiûli) cause its books of accounts to be audited by an auditor appointed in
terms of section 9 Public Enterprises (Control and Monitoring) Act, 1989.
of the

S30

Annual report.
53.
(l) "The Commission shall, in terms of the Public Enterprises (Control and
Monitoring) Act, No. 8 of 1989, within four months after the end of its financial year
prepare a report on its operations which together with a copy of its annual audited accounts
as well as any report by the auditors on its management and accounting practices, shall be
submitted to the Minister responsible, the Minister of Finance, the Standing Committee
and the Public Enterprises Unit, and the report shall include (a) a description of the
business plan of the Commission for that year;
(b) performance measurement criteria to be applied by the Commission in the
annual report of the Commission for the following year;

(c) the audited accounts of the Commission; and
(d) results of independent end-user surveys which ascertain (i) usage, quality of service and end-user satisfaction with the various
electronic communications services available during that year in
Swaziland;

(ii) usage, quality of service and end-user satisfaction with the postal services
available during that year in Swaziland;

(iii) usage, quality of service and end-user satisfaction with electronic
commerce products available during that year in Swaziland;

(iv) the state of listenership or viewership of broadcasting serv ices provided
in Swaziland;

(v) the state of public opinion concerning programmes included in
broadcasting services provided in Swaziland;

(vi) any effects of the programmes refened to in subparagraph (v) on the
attitudes or behaviour of those who watch them; and

(vii) the types of services, products or programmes falling within the remit of
the Commission, that members of the public would like to be available in
Swaziland.

(2) The results mentioned in paragraph (d) may be published and made available to
the general public.

of the

S31

(3) The Minister shall cause to be laid before Parliament the annual audited accounts
Commission within six months after its financial year ends.

of the

S32

PART IX
TRANSITIONAL AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Regulations.
54.
The Minister may, by notice in the Gazette, make regulations for the better carrying out
of the provisions of this Act
Transfer of regulatory powers and savings.
55.
(l ) Subject to subsection (2), the regulatory powers and functions of the Corporation
provided for under the Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications Act, 1983, relating to
communications shall, as from the date of coming into force of this Act, vest in the Commission.
(2) Notwithstanding the transfer of regulatory powers and functions under subsection (l),
anything done by the Corporation, under the Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation Act, 1983, in the exercise of those powers and functions before the coming into
force of this Act, shall be deemed to have been done under this Act.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), the regulatory powers and functions of the Swaziland
Television Authority provided for under the Swaziland Television Authority Act, 1 983, relating
to the issuance of a licence to conduct a television service shall, as from the date of coming into
force of this Act, vest in the Commission.
(4) Notwithstanding the transfer of regulatory powers and functions under subsection
anything done by the Swaziland Television Authority, under the Swaziland Television
Authority Act, 1983, in the exercise of those powers and functions before the coming into force
of this Act, shall be deemed to have been done under this Act.
Transitional provisions.
( l ) Frau: clii€e of coming into force of this Act, there shall be transferred to, vest in
and in the Commission -

56.

(a) all data consisting of all files containing all registration licences and pending
applications; and
(b) all radio monitoring equipment;
which immediately before the coming into force of this Act were under the authority of the
Corporation for regulatory purposes.

(2) From the date of coming into force of this Act, there shall be transferred to, vest in and
subsist in the Commission -

(a) all monies collected by the Corporation in respect of licences for electronic
communications which remain unused on the dale of coming into Iòrce of this Act; and

S33

(b) all monies deposited by the Corporation into the Universal Service
Obligations Fund established under the Joint Venture Agreement
Between The Mobile Telecommunications Network Ltd and the Swaziland Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation in 1998, which remain unused on the date of
coming into force of this Act, and which monies shall be used as initial funding for
the establishment and performance of the functions of the Commission,

(3) Where, under this Act, any equipment referred to in subsection ( l) is transferred to the
Commission in respect of which transfer the prevailing laws provide for registration, the
Commission shall make an application in writing to the appropriate registration authority for
registration of the transfer.

(4) Pending appointment of the Chief Executive Officer or of sufficient personnel within
the Commission, an Acting Chief Executive Officer appointed by the Minister shall conduct the
business ofthe Commission by utilizing the personnel of the Ministw as needed for the efficient
performance of the functions of the Commission.
(5) After appointment of the Chief Executive Officer, but before appointment of sufficient
personnel within the Commission, the Chief Executive Officer shall conduct the business of the
Commission by utilizing the personnel of the Ministry as needed for the efficient performance
of the functions of the Commission.

(6) Any regulations made under the Posts and Telecommunications Act, 1983, relating to
communications shall be continued as if those regulations were made under this Act in so far as
those regulations are not inconsistent with this Act unless those regulations are expressly
repealed by this Act.
PART X
AMENDMENTS
Amendment ofSwaziland Television Authority Act.
57.

The Swaziland Television Authority Act, 1983, is amended by deleting section 17.

Amendment ofSwaziland Posts and Telecommunicaíions Act

58.

The Swaziland Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act, 1983, is amended (a)

by deleting section 5(b);

(b)

by deleting section 6(a);

(c)

by deleting section 7(l)(b); (d) by deleting section I

l (b);
(e) in section 13 -

S34

(i) by deleting the words ", to regulate and control radio communication", which
appear in subsection (l)(e); and

(ii) by deleting the words ", or for the grant to any person, of any licence, permit or
certificate issued under this Act", which appear in subsection

(f) by substituting for section 24, the following new section "The Corporation may, in consultation with the Commission, determine the fates
of postage and the charges to be paid in respect of any postal serviÇe provided
by the Corporation and shall publish such rates and
in the Post Office
Guide or any other suitable media."; and

(g)

90, 93, 94 and 95.
SCHEDULE
(Section 19(1))
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD

Meetings OJ
l.

(l ) The

subject to paragraph 2, regulate its own procedure,

,žåill meet for the purposes referred to in section 12(2) of the Act as often as
onsiders necessary or expedient for the discharge of the functions of the Board;
that the Board shall meet at least once a quarter.

(2) The
the

(3) The

of the Board may be called by the chairperson at any time, but the
chairperso,ii slitill always call a meeting of the Board on receipt of a written request of the Chief
Officer or of not less than half of the members.

(4) The meetings of the Board shall be held at such places and times as the Board may
determine.
(5)

shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of the Board,

(6) The chairperson shall preside at a meeting of the Board and, in the absence of the
chairperson, such member as the members present may elect from their number shall preside.

S35
(7) A decision of the Board on any matter shall be by a majority of the members present and voting and, in
the event of an equality of votes, the chairperson shall have a casting vote in addition to the deliberative vote.

(8) The validity ofany proceeding, act or decision of the Board shall not be affected by a vacancy in the
membership of the Board or by a defect in the appointment of a member, or by reason that any person not
entitled to take part in the proceedings took part in those proceedings.

(9) The Board may invite any person whose presence is, in the opinion of the Board, desirable, to attend
and to participate in the deliberations of the meeting of the Board, but that person shall have no vote.
(10)

The chairperson shall cause proper minutes of the proceedings of the Board to be recorded and
kept and those minutes shall be confirmed at a subsequent meeting of the Board.
Disclosure ofinterest.

2.
(l) If any person is present at a meeting of the Board or any committee at which any matter is the subject
ofconsideration and in which matter that person or the spouse of that person is directly or indirectly interested
in a private capacity, that person shall, as soon as is practicable after the commencement of the meeting, declare
that interest and shall not, unless the Board or the committee otherwise directs, take part in any consideration or
discussion of, or vote on, any question touching that matter.
(2) A disclosure of interest made under subsection (l) shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting at
which the disclosure is made,
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (l) commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine
not exceeding six thousand emalangeni or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.
Immunity ofmembers and members of committees.

3.
An action or other proceedings shall not lie against any member or member of a committee, for or in
respect of any act done or omitted to be done in good faith in the exercise or purported exercise ofthe functions
of the Board or a committee.
Prohibition of disclosure of information.

4.

(l) A person shall not, without the consent in writing given by, or on behalf of, the Board, publish or
disclose to any person, otherwise than in the course of the duties of that person, the contents of any document,
communication, or information which relates to, and which has come to the knowledge of that person in the
course of, the duties of that person under this Act.

S36
(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a
fine not exceeding six thousand emalangeni or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.

(3) If any person having information, which to the knowledge of that person has been published or
disclosed in contravention of subsection (1), unlawfully publishes or communicates that information to any
person, that person commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding six thousand
emalangeni or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.

The Government Printer, Mbabane

