31.7.2002

EN

Official Journal of the European Communities

L 201/37

DIRECTIVE 2002/58/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 12 July 2002
concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION,

and privacy for users of publicly available electronic
communications services, regardless of the technologies
used. That Directive should therefore be repealed and
replaced by this Directive.

Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 95 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social
Committee (2),

(5)

New advanced digital technologies are currently being
introduced in public communications networks in the
Community, which give rise to specific requirements
concerning the protection of personal data and privacy
of the user. The development of the information society
is characterised by the introduction of new electronic
communications services. Access to digital mobile
networks has become available and affordable for a large
public. These digital networks have large capacities and
possibilities for processing personal data. The successful
cross-border development of these services is partly
dependent on the confidence of users that their privacy
will not be at risk.

(6)

The Internet is overturning traditional market structures
by providing a common, global infrastructure for the
delivery of a wide range of electronic communications
services. Publicly available electronic communications
services over the Internet open new possibilities for users
but also new risks for their personal data and privacy.

(7)

In the case of public communications networks, specific
legal, regulatory and technical provisions should be made
in order to protect fundamental rights and freedoms of
natural persons and legitimate interests of legal persons,
in particular with regard to the increasing capacity for
automated storage and processing of data relating to
subscribers and users.

(8)

Legal, regulatory and technical provisions adopted by the
Member States concerning the protection of personal
data, privacy and the legitimate interest of legal persons,
in the electronic communication sector, should be
harmonised in order to avoid obstacles to the internal
market for electronic communication in accordance with
Article 14 of the Treaty. Harmonisation should be
limited to requirements necessary to guarantee that the
promotion and development of new electronic communications services and networks between Member States
are not hindered.

Having consulted the Committee of the Regions,
Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article
251 of the Treaty (3),
Whereas:
(1)

Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data (4) requires
Member States to ensure the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data, and in particular their right to privacy, in order to
ensure the free flow of personal data in the Community.

(2)

This Directive seeks to respect the fundamental rights
and observes the principles recognised in particular by
the Charter of fundamental rights of the European
Union. In particular, this Directive seeks to ensure full
respect for the rights set out in Articles 7 and 8 of that
Charter.

(3)

Confidentiality of communications is guaranteed in
accordance with the international instruments relating to
human rights, in particular the European Convention for
the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the constitutions of the Member States.

(4)

Directive 97/66/EC of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 15 December 1997 concerning the
processing of personal data and the protection of privacy
in the telecommunications sector (5) translated the principles set out in Directive 95/46/EC into specific rules for
the telecommunications sector. Directive 97/66/EC has
to be adapted to developments in the markets and technologies for electronic communications services in order
to provide an equal level of protection of personal data

(1) OJ C 365 E, 19.12.2000, p. 223.
(2) OJ C 123, 25.4.2001, p. 53.
(3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 13 November 2001 (not yet
published in the Official Journal), Council Common Position of 28
January 2002 (OJ C 113 E, 14.5.2002, p. 39) and Decision of the
European Parliament of 30 May 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal). Council Decision of 25 June 2002.
4
( ) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
(5) OJ L 24, 30.1.1998, p. 1.

L 201/38
(9)

EN

Official Journal of the European Communities

The Member States, providers and users concerned,
together with the competent Community bodies, should
cooperate in introducing and developing the relevant
technologies where this is necessary to apply the guarantees provided for by this Directive and taking particular
account of the objectives of minimising the processing
of personal data and of using anonymous or pseudonymous data where possible.

(10)

In the electronic communications sector, Directive 95/
46/EC applies in particular to all matters concerning
protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, which
are not specifically covered by the provisions of this
Directive, including the obligations on the controller and
the rights of individuals. Directive 95/46/EC applies to
non-public communications services.

(11)

Like Directive 95/46/EC, this Directive does not address
issues of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms
related to activities which are not governed by Community law. Therefore it does not alter the existing balance
between the individual’s right to privacy and the possibility for Member States to take the measures referred to in
Article 15(1) of this Directive, necessary for the protection of public security, defence, State security (including
the economic well-being of the State when the activities
relate to State security matters) and the enforcement of
criminal law. Consequently, this Directive does not affect
the ability of Member States to carry out lawful interception of electronic communications, or take other
measures, if necessary for any of these purposes and in
accordance with the European Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,
as interpreted by the rulings of the European Court of
Human Rights. Such measures must be appropriate,
strictly proportionate to the intended purpose and necessary within a democratic society and should be subject
to adequate safeguards in accordance with the European
Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and
Fundamental Freedoms.

(12)

(13)

Subscribers to a publicly available electronic communications service may be natural or legal persons. By supplementing Directive 95/46/EC, this Directive is aimed at
protecting the fundamental rights of natural persons and
particularly their right to privacy, as well as the legitimate interests of legal persons. This Directive does not
entail an obligation for Member States to extend the
application of Directive 95/46/EC to the protection of
the legitimate interests of legal persons, which is ensured
within the framework of the applicable Community and
national legislation.

The contractual relation between a subscriber and a
service provider may entail a periodic or a one-off
payment for the service provided or to be provided.
Prepaid cards are also considered as a contract.

31.7.2002

(14)

Location data may refer to the latitude, longitude and
altitude of the user’s terminal equipment, to the direction
of travel, to the level of accuracy of the location information, to the identification of the network cell in which
the terminal equipment is located at a certain point in
time and to the time the location information was
recorded.

(15)

A communication may include any naming, numbering
or addressing information provided by the sender of a
communication or the user of a connection to carry out
the communication. Traffic data may include any translation of this information by the network over which the
communication is transmitted for the purpose of
carrying out the transmission. Traffic data may, inter alia,
consist of data referring to the routing, duration, time or
volume of a communication, to the protocol used, to the
location of the terminal equipment of the sender or recipient, to the network on which the communication
originates or terminates, to the beginning, end or duration of a connection. They may also consist of the
format in which the communication is conveyed by the
network.

(16)

Information that is part of a broadcasting service
provided over a public communications network is
intended for a potentially unlimited audience and does
not constitute a communication in the sense of this
Directive. However, in cases where the individual
subscriber or user receiving such information can be
identified, for example with video-on-demand services,
the information conveyed is covered within the meaning
of a communication for the purposes of this Directive.

(17)

For the purposes of this Directive, consent of a user or
subscriber, regardless of whether the latter is a natural or
a legal person, should have the same meaning as the data
subject’s consent as defined and further specified in
Directive 95/46/EC. Consent may be given by any appropriate method enabling a freely given specific and
informed indication of the user’s wishes, including by
ticking a box when visiting an Internet website.

(18)

Value added services may, for example, consist of advice
on least expensive tariff packages, route guidance, traffic
information, weather forecasts and tourist information.

(19)

The application of certain requirements relating to
presentation and restriction of calling and connected line
identification and to automatic call forwarding to
subscriber lines connected to analogue exchanges should
not be made mandatory in specific cases where such
application would prove to be technically impossible or
would require a disproportionate economic effort. It is
important for interested parties to be informed of such
cases and the Member States should therefore notify
them to the Commission.

31.7.2002
(20)

(21)

(22)

EN

Official Journal of the European Communities

Service providers should take appropriate measures to
safeguard the security of their services, if necessary in
conjunction with the provider of the network, and
inform subscribers of any special risks of a breach of the
security of the network. Such risks may especially occur
for electronic communications services over an open
network such as the Internet or analogue mobile telephony. It is particularly important for subscribers and
users of such services to be fully informed by their
service provider of the existing security risks which lie
outside the scope of possible remedies by the service
provider. Service providers who offer publicly available
electronic communications services over the Internet
should inform users and subscribers of measures they
can take to protect the security of their communications
for instance by using specific types of software or
encryption technologies. The requirement to inform
subscribers of particular security risks does not discharge
a service provider from the obligation to take, at its own
costs, appropriate and immediate measures to remedy
any new, unforeseen security risks and restore the
normal security level of the service. The provision of
information about security risks to the subscriber should
be free of charge except for any nominal costs which the
subscriber may incur while receiving or collecting the
information, for instance by downloading an electronic
mail message. Security is appraised in the light of Article
17 of Directive 95/46/EC.

Measures should be taken to prevent unauthorised access
to communications in order to protect the confidentiality
of communications, including both the contents and any
data related to such communications, by means of public
communications networks and publicly available electronic communications services. National legislation in
some Member States only prohibits intentional
unauthorised access to communications.

The prohibition of storage of communications and the
related traffic data by persons other than the users or
without their consent is not intended to prohibit any
automatic, intermediate and transient storage of this
information in so far as this takes place for the sole
purpose of carrying out the transmission in the electronic communications network and provided that the
information is not stored for any period longer than is
necessary for the transmission and for traffic management purposes, and that during the period of storage the
confidentiality remains guaranteed. Where this is necessary for making more efficient the onward transmission
of any publicly accessible information to other recipients
of the service upon their request, this Directive should
not prevent such information from being further stored,
provided that this information would in any case be
accessible to the public without restriction and that any
data referring to the individual subscribers or users
requesting such information are erased.

L 201/39

(23)

Confidentiality of communications should also be
ensured in the course of lawful business practice. Where
necessary and legally authorised, communications can be
recorded for the purpose of providing evidence of a
commercial transaction. Directive 95/46/EC applies to
such processing. Parties to the communications should
be informed prior to the recording about the recording,
its purpose and the duration of its storage. The recorded
communication should be erased as soon as possible and
in any case at the latest by the end of the period during
which the transaction can be lawfully challenged.

(24)

Terminal equipment of users of electronic communications networks and any information stored on such
equipment are part of the private sphere of the users
requiring protection under the European Convention for
the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So-called spyware, web bugs, hidden identifiers
and other similar devices can enter the user’s terminal
without their knowledge in order to gain access to information, to store hidden information or to trace the activities of the user and may seriously intrude upon the
privacy of these users. The use of such devices should be
allowed only for legitimate purposes, with the knowledge of the users concerned.

(25)

However, such devices, for instance so-called ‘cookies’,
can be a legitimate and useful tool, for example, in
analysing the effectiveness of website design and advertising, and in verifying the identity of users engaged in
on-line transactions. Where such devices, for instance
cookies, are intended for a legitimate purpose, such as to
facilitate the provision of information society services,
their use should be allowed on condition that users are
provided with clear and precise information in accordance with Directive 95/46/EC about the purposes of
cookies or similar devices so as to ensure that users are
made aware of information being placed on the terminal
equipment they are using. Users should have the opportunity to refuse to have a cookie or similar device stored
on their terminal equipment. This is particularly important where users other than the original user have access
to the terminal equipment and thereby to any data
containing privacy-sensitive information stored on such
equipment. Information and the right to refuse may be
offered once for the use of various devices to be installed
on the user’s terminal equipment during the same
connection and also covering any further use that may
be made of those devices during subsequent connections.
The methods for giving information, offering a right to
refuse or requesting consent should be made as userfriendly as possible. Access to specific website content
may still be made conditional on the well-informed
acceptance of a cookie or similar device, if it is used for
a legitimate purpose.

L 201/40

EN

Official Journal of the European Communities

31.7.2002

The data relating to subscribers processed within electronic communications networks to establish connections and to transmit information contain information
on the private life of natural persons and concern the
right to respect for their correspondence or concern the
legitimate interests of legal persons. Such data may only
be stored to the extent that is necessary for the provision
of the service for the purpose of billing and for interconnection payments, and for a limited time. Any further
processing of such data which the provider of the
publicly available electronic communications services
may want to perform, for the marketing of electronic
communications services or for the provision of value
added services, may only be allowed if the subscriber has
agreed to this on the basis of accurate and full information given by the provider of the publicly available electronic communications services about the types of
further processing it intends to perform and about the
subscriber’s right not to give or to withdraw his/her
consent to such processing. Traffic data used for
marketing communications services or for the provision
of value added services should also be erased or made
anonymous after the provision of the service. Service
providers should always keep subscribers informed of
the types of data they are processing and the purposes
and duration for which this is done.

(30)

Systems for the provision of electronic communications
networks and services should be designed to limit the
amount of personal data necessary to a strict minimum.
Any activities related to the provision of the electronic
communications service that go beyond the transmission
of a communication and the billing thereof should be
based on aggregated, traffic data that cannot be related
to subscribers or users. Where such activities cannot be
based on aggregated data, they should be considered as
value added services for which the consent of the
subscriber is required.

(31)

Whether the consent to be obtained for the processing
of personal data with a view to providing a particular
value added service should be that of the user or of the
subscriber, will depend on the data to be processed and
on the type of service to be provided and on whether it
is technically, procedurally and contractually possible to
distinguish the individual using an electronic communications service from the legal or natural person having
subscribed to it.

(27)

The exact moment of the completion of the transmission
of a communication, after which traffic data should be
erased except for billing purposes, may depend on the
type of electronic communications service that is
provided. For instance for a voice telephony call the
transmission will be completed as soon as either of the
users terminates the connection. For electronic mail the
transmission is completed as soon as the addressee
collects the message, typically from the server of his
service provider.

(32)

Where the provider of an electronic communications
service or of a value added service subcontracts the
processing of personal data necessary for the provision
of these services to another entity, such subcontracting
and subsequent data processing should be in full compliance with the requirements regarding controllers and
processors of personal data as set out in Directive 95/46/
EC. Where the provision of a value added service
requires that traffic or location data are forwarded from
an electronic communications service provider to a
provider of value added services, the subscribers or users
to whom the data are related should also be fully
informed of this forwarding before giving their consent
for the processing of the data.

(28)

The obligation to erase traffic data or to make such data
anonymous when it is no longer needed for the purpose
of the transmission of a communication does not
conflict with such procedures on the Internet as the
caching in the domain name system of IP addresses or
the caching of IP addresses to physical address bindings
or the use of log-in information to control the right of
access to networks or services.

(33)

The introduction of itemised bills has improved the
possibilities for the subscriber to check the accuracy of
the fees charged by the service provider but, at the same
time, it may jeopardise the privacy of the users of
publicly available electronic communications services.
Therefore, in order to preserve the privacy of the user,
Member States should encourage the development of
electronic communication service options such as alternative payment facilities which allow anonymous or
strictly private access to publicly available electronic
communications services, for example calling cards and
facilities for payment by credit card. To the same end,
Member States may ask the operators to offer their
subscribers a different type of detailed bill in which a
certain number of digits of the called number have been
deleted.

(26)

(29)

The service provider may process traffic data relating to
subscribers and users where necessary in individual cases
in order to detect technical failure or errors in the transmission of communications. Traffic data necessary for
billing purposes may also be processed by the provider
in order to detect and stop fraud consisting of unpaid
use of the electronic communications service.

31.7.2002
(34)

(35)

(36)

EN

Official Journal of the European Communities

It is necessary, as regards calling line identification, to
protect the right of the calling party to withhold the
presentation of the identification of the line from which
the call is being made and the right of the called party to
reject calls from unidentified lines. There is justification
for overriding the elimination of calling line identification presentation in specific cases. Certain subscribers, in
particular help lines and similar organisations, have an
interest in guaranteeing the anonymity of their callers. It
is necessary, as regards connected line identification, to
protect the right and the legitimate interest of the called
party to withhold the presentation of the identification
of the line to which the calling party is actually
connected, in particular in the case of forwarded calls.
The providers of publicly available electronic communications services should inform their subscribers of the
existence of calling and connected line identification in
the network and of all services which are offered on the
basis of calling and connected line identification as well
as the privacy options which are available. This will
allow the subscribers to make an informed choice about
the privacy facilities they may want to use. The privacy
options which are offered on a per-line basis do not
necessarily have to be available as an automatic network
service but may be obtainable through a simple request
to the provider of the publicly available electronic
communications service.

(37)

Safeguards should be provided for subscribers against
the nuisance which may be caused by automatic call
forwarding by others. Moreover, in such cases, it must
be possible for subscribers to stop the forwarded calls
being passed on to their terminals by simple request to
the provider of the publicly available electronic communications service.

(38)

Directories of subscribers to electronic communications
services are widely distributed and public. The right to
privacy of natural persons and the legitimate interest of
legal persons require that subscribers are able to determine whether their personal data are published in a
directory and if so, which. Providers of public directories
should inform the subscribers to be included in such
directories of the purposes of the directory and of any
particular usage which may be made of electronic
versions of public directories especially through search
functions embedded in the software, such as reverse
search functions enabling users of the directory to
discover the name and address of the subscriber on the
basis of a telephone number only.

(39)

The obligation to inform subscribers of the purpose(s) of
public directories in which their personal data are to be
included should be imposed on the party collecting the
data for such inclusion. Where the data may be transmitted to one or more third parties, the subscriber
should be informed of this possibility and of the recipient or the categories of possible recipients. Any transmission should be subject to the condition that the data
may not be used for other purposes than those for which
they were collected. If the party collecting the data from
the subscriber or any third party to whom the data have
been transmitted wishes to use the data for an additional
purpose, the renewed consent of the subscriber is to be
obtained either by the initial party collecting the data or
by the third party to whom the data have been transmitted.

(40)

Safeguards should be provided for subscribers against
intrusion of their privacy by unsolicited communications
for direct marketing purposes in particular by means of
automated calling machines, telefaxes, and e-mails,
including SMS messages. These forms of unsolicited
commercial communications may on the one hand be
relatively easy and cheap to send and on the other may
impose a burden and/or cost on the recipient. Moreover,
in some cases their volume may also cause difficulties
for electronic communications networks and terminal
equipment. For such forms of unsolicited communications for direct marketing, it is justified to require that
prior explicit consent of the recipients is obtained before
such communications are addressed to them. The single
market requires a harmonised approach to ensure
simple, Community-wide rules for businesses and users.

In digital mobile networks, location data giving the
geographic position of the terminal equipment of the
mobile user are processed to enable the transmission of
communications. Such data are traffic data covered by
Article 6 of this Directive. However, in addition, digital
mobile networks may have the capacity to process location data which are more precise than is necessary for
the transmission of communications and which are used
for the provision of value added services such as services
providing individualised traffic information and guidance
to drivers. The processing of such data for value added
services should only be allowed where subscribers have
given their consent. Even in cases where subscribers have
given their consent, they should have a simple means to
temporarily deny the processing of location data, free of
charge.

Member States may restrict the users’ and subscribers’
rights to privacy with regard to calling line identification
where this is necessary to trace nuisance calls and with
regard to calling line identification and location data
where this is necessary to allow emergency services to
carry out their tasks as effectively as possible. For these
purposes, Member States may adopt specific provisions
to entitle providers of electronic communications
services to provide access to calling line identification
and location data without the prior consent of the users
or subscribers concerned.

L 201/41

L 201/42

EN

Official Journal of the European Communities

(41)

Within the context of an existing customer relationship,
it is reasonable to allow the use of electronic contact
details for the offering of similar products or services,
but only by the same company that has obtained the
electronic contact details in accordance with Directive
95/46/EC. When electronic contact details are obtained,
the customer should be informed about their further use
for direct marketing in a clear and distinct manner, and
be given the opportunity to refuse such usage. This
opportunity should continue to be offered with each
subsequent direct marketing message, free of charge,
except for any costs for the transmission of this refusal.

(42)

Other forms of direct marketing that are more costly for
the sender and impose no financial costs on subscribers
and users, such as person-to-person voice telephony
calls, may justify the maintenance of a system giving
subscribers or users the possibility to indicate that they
do not want to receive such calls. Nevertheless, in order
not to decrease existing levels of privacy protection,
Member States should be entitled to uphold national
systems, only allowing such calls to subscribers and users
who have given their prior consent.

(43)

To facilitate effective enforcement of Community rules
on unsolicited messages for direct marketing, it is necessary to prohibit the use of false identities or false return
addresses or numbers while sending unsolicited messages
for direct marketing purposes.

(44)

Certain electronic mail systems allow subscribers to view
the sender and subject line of an electronic mail, and also
to delete the message, without having to download the
rest of the electronic mail’s content or any attachments,
thereby reducing costs which could arise from downloading unsolicited electronic mails or attachments.
These arrangements may continue to be useful in certain
cases as an additional tool to the general obligations
established in this Directive.

(45)

(46)

31.7.2002

nents necessary to provide the service and of the distribution of the necessary functionalities between these
components. Directive 95/46/EC covers any form of
processing of personal data regardless of the technology
used. The existence of specific rules for electronic
communications services alongside general rules for
other components necessary for the provision of such
services may not facilitate the protection of personal data
and privacy in a technologically neutral way. It may
therefore be necessary to adopt measures requiring
manufacturers of certain types of equipment used for
electronic communications services to construct their
product in such a way as to incorporate safeguards to
ensure that the personal data and privacy of the user and
subscriber are protected. The adoption of such measures
in accordance with Directive 1999/5/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 1999 on radio
equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment
and the mutual recognition of their conformity (2) will
ensure that the introduction of technical features of electronic communication equipment including software for
data protection purposes is harmonised in order to be
compatible with the implementation of the internal
market.
(47)

Where the rights of the users and subscribers are not
respected, national legislation should provide for judicial
remedies. Penalties should be imposed on any person,
whether governed by private or public law, who fails to
comply with the national measures taken under this
Directive.

(48)

It is useful, in the field of application of this Directive, to
draw on the experience of the Working Party on the
Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of
Personal Data composed of representatives of the supervisory authorities of the Member States, set up by Article
29 of Directive 95/46/EC.

(49)

To facilitate compliance with the provisions of this
Directive, certain specific arrangements are needed for
processing of data already under way on the date that
national implementing legislation pursuant to this Directive enters into force,

This Directive is without prejudice to the arrangements
which Member States make to protect the legitimate
interests of legal persons with regard to unsolicited
communications for direct marketing purposes. Where
Member States establish an opt-out register for such
communications to legal persons, mostly business users,
the provisions of Article 7 of Directive 2000/31/EC of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June
2000 on certain legal aspects of information society
services, in particular electronic commerce, in the
internal market (Directive on electronic commerce) (1)
are fully applicable.

HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE:

The functionalities for the provision of electronic
communications services may be integrated in the
network or in any part of the terminal equipment of the
user, including the software. The protection of the
personal data and the privacy of the user of publicly
available electronic communications services should be
independent of the configuration of the various compo-

1. This Directive harmonises the provisions of the Member
States required to ensure an equivalent level of protection of
fundamental rights and freedoms, and in particular the right to
privacy, with respect to the processing of personal data in the
electronic communication sector and to ensure the free movement of such data and of electronic communication equipment
and services in the Community.

(1) OJ L 178, 17.7.2000, p. 1.

Article 1
Scope and aim

(2) OJ L 91, 7.4.1999, p. 10.

31.7.2002

Official Journal of the European Communities

EN

2.
The provisions of this Directive particularise and complement Directive 95/46/EC for the purposes mentioned in paragraph 1. Moreover, they provide for protection of the legitimate
interests of subscribers who are legal persons.
3.
This Directive shall not apply to activities which fall
outside the scope of the Treaty establishing the European
Community, such as those covered by Titles V and VI of the
Treaty on European Union, and in any case to activities
concerning public security, defence, State security (including
the economic well-being of the State when the activities relate
to State security matters) and the activities of the State in areas
of criminal law.

Article 2
Definitions
Save as otherwise provided, the definitions in Directive 95/46/
EC and in Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a common regulatory
framework for electronic communications networks and
services (Framework Directive) (1) shall apply.

L 201/43

can be stored in the network or in the recipient’s terminal
equipment until it is collected by the recipient.

Article 3
Services concerned
1. This Directive shall apply to the processing of personal
data in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communications services in public communications
networks in the Community.
2. Articles 8, 10 and 11 shall apply to subscriber lines
connected to digital exchanges and, where technically possible
and if it does not require a disproportionate economic effort, to
subscriber lines connected to analogue exchanges.
3. Cases where it would be technically impossible or require
a disproportionate economic effort to fulfil the requirements of
Articles 8, 10 and 11 shall be notified to the Commission by
the Member States.

The following definitions shall also apply:

Article 4

(a) ‘user’ means any natural person using a publicly available
electronic communications service, for private or business
purposes, without necessarily having subscribed to this
service;

Security

(b) ‘traffic data’ means any data processed for the purpose of
the conveyance of a communication on an electronic
communications network or for the billing thereof;
(c) ‘location data’ means any data processed in an electronic
communications network, indicating the geographic position of the terminal equipment of a user of a publicly available electronic communications service;
(d) ‘communication’ means any information exchanged or
conveyed between a finite number of parties by means of a
publicly available electronic communications service. This
does not include any information conveyed as part of a
broadcasting service to the public over an electronic
communications network except to the extent that the
information can be related to the identifiable subscriber or
user receiving the information;
(e) ‘call’ means a connection established by means of a publicly
available telephone service allowing two-way communication in real time;
(f) ‘consent’ by a user or subscriber corresponds to the data
subject’s consent in Directive 95/46/EC;
(g) ‘value added service’ means any service which requires the
processing of traffic data or location data other than traffic
data beyond what is necessary for the transmission of a
communication or the billing thereof;
(h) ‘electronic mail’ means any text, voice, sound or image
message sent over a public communications network which
(1) OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 33.

1. The provider of a publicly available electronic communications service must take appropriate technical and organisational measures to safeguard security of its services, if necessary
in conjunction with the provider of the public communications
network with respect to network security. Having regard to the
state of the art and the cost of their implementation, these
measures shall ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk
presented.
2. In case of a particular risk of a breach of the security of
the network, the provider of a publicly available electronic
communications service must inform the subscribers
concerning such risk and, where the risk lies outside the scope
of the measures to be taken by the service provider, of any
possible remedies, including an indication of the likely costs
involved.

Article 5
Confidentiality of the communications
1. Member States shall ensure the confidentiality of communications and the related traffic data by means of a public
communications network and publicly available electronic
communications services, through national legislation. In particular, they shall prohibit listening, tapping, storage or other
kinds of interception or surveillance of communications and
the related traffic data by persons other than users, without the
consent of the users concerned, except when legally authorised
to do so in accordance with Article 15(1). This paragraph shall
not prevent technical storage which is necessary for the conveyance of a communication without prejudice to the principle of
confidentiality.

L 201/44

Official Journal of the European Communities

EN

2.
Paragraph 1 shall not affect any legally authorised
recording of communications and the related traffic data when
carried out in the course of lawful business practice for the
purpose of providing evidence of a commercial transaction or
of any other business communication.
3.
Member States shall ensure that the use of electronic
communications networks to store information or to gain
access to information stored in the terminal equipment of a
subscriber or user is only allowed on condition that the
subscriber or user concerned is provided with clear and
comprehensive information in accordance with Directive 95/
46/EC, inter alia about the purposes of the processing, and is
offered the right to refuse such processing by the data
controller. This shall not prevent any technical storage or access
for the sole purpose of carrying out or facilitating the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications
network, or as strictly necessary in order to provide an information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or
user.

31.7.2002

6. Paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 shall apply without prejudice to
the possibility for competent bodies to be informed of traffic
data in conformity with applicable legislation with a view to
settling disputes, in particular interconnection or billing
disputes.

Article 7
Itemised billing
1. Subscribers shall have the right to receive non-itemised
bills.
2. Member States shall apply national provisions in order to
reconcile the rights of subscribers receiving itemised bills with
the right to privacy of calling users and called subscribers, for
example by ensuring that sufficient alternative privacy enhancing methods of communications or payments are available to
such users and subscribers.

Article 6
Article 8
Traffic data
1.
Traffic data relating to subscribers and users processed
and stored by the provider of a public communications
network or publicly available electronic communications
service must be erased or made anonymous when it is no
longer needed for the purpose of the transmission of a communication without prejudice to paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of this
Article and Article 15(1).
2.
Traffic data necessary for the purposes of subscriber
billing and interconnection payments may be processed. Such
processing is permissible only up to the end of the period
during which the bill may lawfully be challenged or payment
pursued.
3.
For the purpose of marketing electronic communications
services or for the provision of value added services, the
provider of a publicly available electronic communications
service may process the data referred to in paragraph 1 to the
extent and for the duration necessary for such services or
marketing, if the subscriber or user to whom the data relate has
given his/her consent. Users or subscribers shall be given the
possibility to withdraw their consent for the processing of
traffic data at any time.
4.
The service provider must inform the subscriber or user
of the types of traffic data which are processed and of the duration of such processing for the purposes mentioned in paragraph 2 and, prior to obtaining consent, for the purposes
mentioned in paragraph 3.
5.
Processing of traffic data, in accordance with paragraphs
1, 2, 3 and 4, must be restricted to persons acting under the
authority of providers of the public communications networks
and publicly available electronic communications services handling billing or traffic management, customer enquiries, fraud
detection, marketing electronic communications services or
providing a value added service, and must be restricted to what
is necessary for the purposes of such activities.

Presentation and restriction of calling and connected line
identification
1. Where presentation of calling line identification is offered,
the service provider must offer the calling user the possibility,
using a simple means and free of charge, of preventing the
presentation of the calling line identification on a per-call basis.
The calling subscriber must have this possibility on a per-line
basis.
2. Where presentation of calling line identification is offered,
the service provider must offer the called subscriber the possibility, using a simple means and free of charge for reasonable use
of this function, of preventing the presentation of the calling
line identification of incoming calls.
3. Where presentation of calling line identification is offered
and where the calling line identification is presented prior to
the call being established, the service provider must offer the
called subscriber the possibility, using a simple means, of
rejecting incoming calls where the presentation of the calling
line identification has been prevented by the calling user or
subscriber.
4. Where presentation of connected line identification is
offered, the service provider must offer the called subscriber the
possibility, using a simple means and free of charge, of
preventing the presentation of the connected line identification
to the calling user.
5. Paragraph 1 shall also apply with regard to calls to third
countries originating in the Community. Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4
shall also apply to incoming calls originating in third countries.
6. Member States shall ensure that where presentation of
calling and/or connected line identification is offered, the providers of publicly available electronic communications services
inform the public thereof and of the possibilities set out in
paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4.

31.7.2002

Official Journal of the European Communities

EN

Article 9
Location data other than traffic data
1.
Where location data other than traffic data, relating to
users or subscribers of public communications networks or
publicly available electronic communications services, can be
processed, such data may only be processed when they are
made anonymous, or with the consent of the users or subscribers to the extent and for the duration necessary for the provision of a value added service. The service provider must inform
the users or subscribers, prior to obtaining their consent, of the
type of location data other than traffic data which will be
processed, of the purposes and duration of the processing and
whether the data will be transmitted to a third party for the
purpose of providing the value added service. Users or subscribers shall be given the possibility to withdraw their consent for
the processing of location data other than traffic data at any
time.
2.
Where consent of the users or subscribers has been
obtained for the processing of location data other than traffic
data, the user or subscriber must continue to have the possibility, using a simple means and free of charge, of temporarily
refusing the processing of such data for each connection to the
network or for each transmission of a communication.
3.
Processing of location data other than traffic data in
accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 must be restricted to
persons acting under the authority of the provider of the public
communications network or publicly available communications
service or of the third party providing the value added service,
and must be restricted to what is necessary for the purposes of
providing the value added service.

Article 10
Exceptions
Member States shall ensure that there are transparent procedures governing the way in which a provider of a public
communications network and/or a publicly available electronic
communications service may override:
(a) the elimination of the presentation of calling line identification, on a temporary basis, upon application of a subscriber
requesting the tracing of malicious or nuisance calls. In this
case, in accordance with national law, the data containing
the identification of the calling subscriber will be stored and
be made available by the provider of a public communications network and/or publicly available electronic communications service;
(b) the elimination of the presentation of calling line identification and the temporary denial or absence of consent of a
subscriber or user for the processing of location data, on a
per-line basis for organisations dealing with emergency calls
and recognised as such by a Member State, including law
enforcement agencies, ambulance services and fire brigades,
for the purpose of responding to such calls.

L 201/45
Article 11

Automatic call forwarding
Member States shall ensure that any subscriber has the possibility, using a simple means and free of charge, of stopping
automatic call forwarding by a third party to the subscriber’s
terminal.

Article 12
Directories of subscribers
1. Member States shall ensure that subscribers are informed,
free of charge and before they are included in the directory,
about the purpose(s) of a printed or electronic directory of
subscribers available to the public or obtainable through directory enquiry services, in which their personal data can be
included and of any further usage possibilities based on search
functions embedded in electronic versions of the directory.
2. Member States shall ensure that subscribers are given the
opportunity to determine whether their personal data are
included in a public directory, and if so, which, to the extent
that such data are relevant for the purpose of the directory as
determined by the provider of the directory, and to verify,
correct or withdraw such data. Not being included in a public
subscriber directory, verifying, correcting or withdrawing
personal data from it shall be free of charge.
3. Member States may require that for any purpose of a
public directory other than the search of contact details of
persons on the basis of their name and, where necessary, a
minimum of other identifiers, additional consent be asked of
the subscribers.
4. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply to subscribers who are
natural persons. Member States shall also ensure, in the framework of Community law and applicable national legislation,
that the legitimate interests of subscribers other than natural
persons with regard to their entry in public directories are sufficiently protected.

Article 13
Unsolicited communications
1. The use of automated calling systems without human
intervention (automatic calling machines), facsimile machines
(fax) or electronic mail for the purposes of direct marketing
may only be allowed in respect of subscribers who have given
their prior consent.
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, where a natural or legal
person obtains from its customers their electronic contact
details for electronic mail, in the context of the sale of a
product or a service, in accordance with Directive 95/46/EC,
the same natural or legal person may use these electronic
contact details for direct marketing of its own similar products
or services provided that customers clearly and distinctly are
given the opportunity to object, free of charge and in an easy
manner, to such use of electronic contact details when they are
collected and on the occasion of each message in case the
customer has not initially refused such use.

L 201/46

Official Journal of the European Communities

EN

3.
Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure
that, free of charge, unsolicited communications for purposes
of direct marketing, in cases other than those referred to in
paragraphs 1 and 2, are not allowed either without the consent
of the subscribers concerned or in respect of subscribers who
do not wish to receive these communications, the choice
between these options to be determined by national legislation.
4.
In any event, the practice of sending electronic mail for
purposes of direct marketing disguising or concealing the identity of the sender on whose behalf the communication is made,
or without a valid address to which the recipient may send a
request that such communications cease, shall be prohibited.
5.
Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall apply to subscribers who are
natural persons. Member States shall also ensure, in the framework of Community law and applicable national legislation,
that the legitimate interests of subscribers other than natural
persons with regard to unsolicited communications are sufficiently protected.

Article 14
Technical features and standardisation
1.
In implementing the provisions of this Directive, Member
States shall ensure, subject to paragraphs 2 and 3, that no
mandatory requirements for specific technical features are
imposed on terminal or other electronic communication equipment which could impede the placing of equipment on the
market and the free circulation of such equipment in and
between Member States.
2.
Where provisions of this Directive can be implemented
only by requiring specific technical features in electronic
communications networks, Member States shall inform the
Commission in accordance with the procedure provided for by
Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the
provision of information in the field of technical standards and
regulations and of rules on information society services (1).
3.
Where required, measures may be adopted to ensure that
terminal equipment is constructed in a way that is compatible
with the right of users to protect and control the use of their
personal data, in accordance with Directive 1999/5/EC and
Council Decision 87/95/EEC of 22 December 1986 on standardisation in the field of information technology and communications (2).

31.7.2002

Directive when such restriction constitutes a necessary, appropriate and proportionate measure within a democratic society
to safeguard national security (i.e. State security), defence,
public security, and the prevention, investigation, detection and
prosecution of criminal offences or of unauthorised use of the
electronic communication system, as referred to in Article
13(1) of Directive 95/46/EC. To this end, Member States may,
inter alia, adopt legislative measures providing for the retention
of data for a limited period justified on the grounds laid down
in this paragraph. All the measures referred to in this paragraph
shall be in accordance with the general principles of Community law, including those referred to in Article 6(1) and (2) of
the Treaty on European Union.
2. The provisions of Chapter III on judicial remedies, liability
and sanctions of Directive 95/46/EC shall apply with regard to
national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and with
regard to the individual rights derived from this Directive.
3. The Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with
regard to the Processing of Personal Data instituted by Article
29 of Directive 95/46/EC shall also carry out the tasks laid
down in Article 30 of that Directive with regard to matters
covered by this Directive, namely the protection of fundamental
rights and freedoms and of legitimate interests in the electronic
communications sector.

Article 16
Transitional arrangements
1. Article 12 shall not apply to editions of directories already
produced or placed on the market in printed or off-line electronic form before the national provisions adopted pursuant to
this Directive enter into force.
2. Where the personal data of subscribers to fixed or mobile
public voice telephony services have been included in a public
subscriber directory in conformity with the provisions of Directive 95/46/EC and of Article 11 of Directive 97/66/EC before
the national provisions adopted in pursuance of this Directive
enter into force, the personal data of such subscribers may
remain included in this public directory in its printed or electronic versions, including versions with reverse search functions, unless subscribers indicate otherwise, after having
received complete information about purposes and options in
accordance with Article 12 of this Directive.

Article 15
Application of certain provisions of Directive 95/46/EC
Article 17
1.
Member States may adopt legislative measures to restrict
the scope of the rights and obligations provided for in Article
5, Article 6, Article 8(1), (2), (3) and (4), and Article 9 of this

Transposition

(1) OJ L 204, 21.7.1998, p. 37. Directive as amended by Directive 98/
48/EC (OJ L 217, 5.8.1998, p. 18).
(2) OJ L 36, 7.2.1987, p. 31. Decision as last amended by the 1994 Act
of Accession.

1. Before 31 October 2003 Member States shall bring into
force the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive.
They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof.

31.7.2002

Official Journal of the European Communities

EN

When Member States adopt those provisions, they shall contain
a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. The methods
of making such reference shall be laid down by the Member
States.
2.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the
text of the provisions of national law which they adopt in the
field governed by this Directive and of any subsequent amendments to those provisions.

L 201/47
Article 19
Repeal

Directive 97/66/EC is hereby repealed with effect from the date
referred to in Article 17(1).
References made to the repealed Directive shall be construed as
being made to this Directive.
Article 20
Entry into force

Article 18
Review
The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and
the Council, not later than three years after the date referred to
in Article 17(1), a report on the application of this Directive
and its impact on economic operators and consumers, in particular as regards the provisions on unsolicited communications,
taking into account the international environment. For this
purpose, the Commission may request information from the
Member States, which shall be supplied without undue delay.
Where appropriate, the Commission shall submit proposals to
amend this Directive, taking account of the results of that
report, any changes in the sector and any other proposal it may
deem necessary in order to improve the effectiveness of this
Directive.

This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 21
Addressees
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.

Done at Brussels, 12 July 2002.
For the European Parliament

For the Council

The President

The President

P. COX

T. PEDERSEN

