(13) Guidance on Consent
Guidance on the EU General Data Protection
Regulation 2016/679 and the Data Protection
Act 2004

21st December 2020
Guidance Note IR01/19 (v2)

The EU General Data Protection Regulation
2016/679 (the “GDPR”) came into force on 25th May
2018, replacing the existing data protection
framework under the EU Data Protection Directive
95/46/EC.
Her Majesty’s Government of Gibraltar amended the
Data Protection Act 2004 (the “DPA”) on 25th May
2018, in accordance with the introduction of the
GDPR. The DPA complements the GDPR and also
implements the Law Enforcement Directive
2016/680. Therefore, the DPA and the GDPR must
be read side by side.
It is important to note that the GDPR does not
generally require transposition (EU regulations have
‘direct effect’) and automatically became law in
Gibraltar. Therefore, organisations involved in the
processing of personal data need to be aware of the
obligations that the GDPR and/or the DPA will
impose on them. The GDPR emphasises
transparency, security and accountability by data
controllers, while at the same time standardising and
strengthening the right of European citizens to data
privacy.
The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority, as the
Information Commissioner, is aware of the increased
obligations that the GDPR and DPA place on
organisations. The Information Commissioner’s aim
is to alleviate some of the concerns for businesses,
public-sector and third-sector organisations and
assist them ensure data protection compliance.

SUMMARY


Consent is one of the lawful grounds for the processing of personal data under Article 6 of the GDPR. Explicit
consent is one of the lawful bases that can be relied on to process special categories of personal data or
personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences.



For

consent

to

be

valid,

it

must

meet

the

following

conditions

–

1) Freely given. Consent must be freely given, which requires the following:

a. Imbalance of power. Where there is an imbalance of power, consent is unlikely to be valid.
i. It is unlikely that public authorities can rely on consent for the processing of personal data as
there is often a clear imbalance of power in the relationship between the data controller and
the data subject.
ii. An imbalance of power also occurs in the employment context. In the employer/employee
relationship, it is unlikely that the data subject is able to deny his/her employer consent to
the processing of their personal data without detrimental effects as a result of a refusal.
However, it’s important to note that in certain circumstances, employers and public authorities
may rely on consent as a lawful basis for processing, as long as they can demonstrate that consent
is freely given (for example, a film crew wants to film a certain part of an office).

b. Conditionality. The purpose of the processing of personal data should not be disguised nor bundled
with the provision of a contract of a service for which personal data are not necessary.

c. Granularity. Where a service involves multiple processing operations for more than one purpose,

data subjects should be free to choose which purpose they accept instead of having to consent to
a bundle of processing purposes.

d. Detriment. Data controllers should demonstrate that it is possible for a data subject to refuse or
withdraw consent without detriment.

2) Specific. Consent must be given in relation to a specific purpose. This requirement should be interpreted
in line with the requirement for ‘granularity’ to obtain free consent.
3) Informed. Providing information to data subjects prior to obtaining their consent is essential to allow
them to make informed decisions, understand what they are agreeing to and be able to exercise their
right to withdraw consent. If the target audience includes individuals that are underage, data controllers
are expected to make sure that the information provided is understandable for minors.
4) Unambiguous. Consent requires an unambiguous indication by means of a statement or by a clear
affirmative
action
from
the
data
subject.


Explicit consent plays a role in the processing of special categories of personal data, the provisions on data
transfers to third countries or international organisations in the absence of adequate safeguards and on
automated individual decision-making, including profiling.



Data controllers must be able to demonstrate a data subject’s consent. This means that the burden of proof
will be on the data controller.



Data controllers must ensure that consent can be withdrawn by the data subject and that consent must be
as easy to withdraw as it was to give.

CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................. 1
2. CONSENT UNDER THE GDPR AND DPA ......................................................... 2
3. EXPLICIT CONSENT...........................................................................................6
4. ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR OBTAINING VALID CONSENT .................... 7
5. CONSENT AND OTHER LAWFUL GROUNDS IN ARTICLE 6 OF THE GDPR .9
6. AREAS OF CONCERN IN THE GDPR ................................................................9
7. CONSENT OBTAINED UNDER THE PREVIOUS EU DATA PROTECTION
DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC .......................................................................................... 10
8. CONSENT IN PART 3 OF THE DPA .................................................................. 11

1. INTRODUCTION
This guidance note provides information and guidance on the conditions for consent under
the Data Protection Act 2004 (“DPA”) and the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679
(“GDPR”). It’s important to note that the concept of consent is not new, as its definition and
role remains similar to that under the previous EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and the
current ePrivacy Directive 2002/58/EC (the “ePrivacy Directive”).
Consent is one of the six lawful bases to process personal data under Article 6 of the GDPR.
When initiating activities that involve processing of personal data, data controllers should take
time to consider what would be the appropriate lawful ground for the envisaged processing.
Generally, consent can only be an appropriate lawful basis if individuals are offered control
and a genuine choice with regard to accepting or declining the terms offered or declining them
without detriment. As a result, before asking for consent, data controllers should assess
whether they will meet the requirements to obtain valid consent under the GDPR.
Obtaining consent does not negate or in any way diminish a data controller’s obligation to
comply with the principles of data processing of the GDPR, especially those relating to fairness,
necessity and proportionality. Even if the processing of personal data is based on consent,
this would not legitimise the collection of personal data which is not necessary in relation to
a specified purpose of processing and be fundamentally unfair.
The Information Commissioner1 is aware of the review of the ePrivacy Directive, implemented
in Gibraltar under the Communications (Personal Data and Privacy) Regulations 2006.
However, the notion of consent in the draft ePrivacy Regulation remains linked to the notion
of consent in the GDPR2.
Data controllers are likely to need consent under the ePrivacy instrument for most online
marketing messages or marketing calls, and online tracking methods including those by the
use of cookies, apps or other software. In this respect, the European Data Protection Board
(“EDPB”) have provided recommendations and guidance to the European legislator on the
Proposal for a Regulation on ePrivacy3.

Note: this document largely aims to provide guidance in line with the EDPB’s guidelines on
consent under the GDPR4. For more detailed guidance it may be useful for data controllers to
consult said guidelines separately.

1

The Information Commissioner is the Chief Executive Officer of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.

2

Under Article 9 of the proposed ePrivacy Regulation, the definition of and the conditions for consent provided
for in Article 4(11) and Article 7 of the GDPR apply.
3

See European Data Protection Board statement on ePrivacy dated 25/05/2018 and European Data Protection
Board Statement 3/2019 on an ePrivacy regulation.
4

See European Data Protection Board, ‘Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679’ (Version 1.1)
(4th May 2020). https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_202005_consent_en.pdf

1

2. CONSENT UNDER THE GDPR AND DPA
GDPR - Article 4(11)
‘Consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous
indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear
affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or
her.
Consent is one of the lawful grounds for the processing of personal data under Article 6 of the
GDPR. The GDPR provides additional guidance in Article 7 and in Recitals 32, 33, 42 and 43
in respect of how data controllers must act to comply with the consent requirements.
The GDPR includes specific provisions and recitals on the withdrawal of consent. This means
that consent should be a reversible decision and that data subjects should have a degree of
control in respect of the processing of their personal data.
Elements of valid consent
In the following, the wording of Article 4(11) of the GDPR is analysed, and guidance is provided
for data controllers to ensure compliance with the GDPR5.
Freely given
Data subjects should have a real choice and control over the processing of their personal data.
The GDPR prescribes that if a data subject has no real choice, feels compelled to consent or
will endure negative consequences if they do not consent, then consent will not be valid6.
For example, consent will not be considered freely given if it’s bundled as a non-negotiable
part of terms and conditions or if data subjects are unable to refuse or withdraw consent
without detriment (see Recitals 42 and 43 of the GDPR).
When assessing whether consent is freely given, data controllers should consider, amongst
other things, the specific situation of tying consent into contracts or the provision of a service
(see Article 7(4) of the GDPR). In general terms, any element of inappropriate pressure or
influence upon the data subject which prevents him/her from exercising their free will, shall
render consent invalid.
i.

Imbalance of power

Recital 43 of the GDPR indicates that it is unlikely that public authorities can rely on consent
for the processing of personal data as there is often a clear imbalance of power in the
5

For guidance with regard to ongoing processing activities based on consent under the previous EU Data
Protection Directive 95/46/EC, refer to Recital 171 of the GDPR.
6

See European Data Protection Board, Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP187), Page 12 (13 July
2011).

2

relationship between the data controller and the data subject. Therefore, the Information
Commissioner is of the view that public authorities should consider other lawful bases for the
processing of personal data (see Guidance Note on Identifying the Lawful Basis).
Notwithstanding the above, the use of consent as a lawful basis for data processing by public
authorities is not totally excluded. In some cases, public authorities may rely on consent as
the lawful basis for data processing. For example, a public school asks students for consent
to use their photographs in a printed school magazine. In this case, students have a genuine
choice as they will not be denied education or services and can refuse the use of their
photographs without any detriment.
An imbalance of power also occurs in the employment context7. In the employer/employee
relationship, it is unlikely that the data subject is able to deny his/her employer consent to the
processing of their personal data without detrimental effects as a result of a refusal. Further,
it is unlikely that the data subject is able to respond freely to a request for consent from
his/her employer (for example, where consent is sought for monitoring systems such as
camera observation in a workplace). Employers should therefore not rely on consent of the
employees as the lawful basis for the processing of their personal data8.
However, it’s important to note that in certain circumstances, employers may rely on consent
as a lawful basis for processing, as long as they can demonstrate that consent is freely given
(for example, a film crew wants to film a certain part of an office. In this case, the employer
may ask its employees, who work in that part of the office, for their consent to be filmed.
Those who don’t want to be filmed are not penalised in any way but instead are provided with
desks elsewhere in the building where they may continue to work during the duration of the
filming).
ii.

Conditionality

Article 7(4) of the GDPR plays an important role when it comes to assessing whether consent
is freely given. It seeks to ensure that the processing of personal data for which consent is
sought is not directly or indirectly the counter-performance of a contract. If a request for
consent is tied to the performance of a contract by the data controller, then a data subject
who does not consent to making their personal data available for processing by the data
controller, runs the risk of being denied services they have requested. In other words, if the
data subject wishes to enter into a contract, but the condition for entering into said contract
is that the individual must consent to the processing of personal data which is not necessary
for the performance of the contract, then consent is not considered to have been freely
given and the requirements of the GDPR regarding consent would not have been met. If,
however, the same data controller also offers the exact service and contract but without the
need for consent to personal data processing, then individuals choosing the option requiring
personal data to be provided, would be considered as having freely given consent.

7

See Article 88 of the GDPR, which refers to the processing in the context of employment and Recital 155 of the
GDPR.
8

See European Data Protection Board, Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work (WP249), Pages 6-7 (8 June
2017).

3

Data controllers should determine what the scope of the contract is and what personal data
is necessary for the performance of that contract9. There needs to be a direct and objective
link between the processing of personal data and the purpose of the execution of the contract.
If a data controller seeks personal data that is necessary for the performance of a
contract, then, although consent under Article 6(1)(a) of the GDPR would not be the
appropriate lawful basis, they would still have a lawful basis under Article 6(1)(b) of the
GDPR10.
In regard to the provision of online services, access to said services should not be made
conditional on the consent of a user to the storing of personal data, or gaining of access to
personal data already stored, in the terminal equipment of a user. For example, where a user
wishes to contract a service through a website, but access to the content of the website is
dependent on the individual consenting to the use of cookies by the data controller, consent
will not be considered freely given as the user is not presented with a genuine choice.
iii.

Granularity

In general terms, where a service involves multiple processing operations for more than one
purpose, data subjects should be free to choose which purpose they accept instead of having
to consent to a bundle of processing purposes (see Recital 43 of the GDPR). In these cases,
several consents may be warranted in order to offer a service, pursuant to the GDPR (see
Recital 32 of the GDPR).
The above means that if a data controller has combined several purposes for processing and
has not attempted to seek separate consent for each purpose, consent will not be considered
freely given and therefore, not valid. This granularity is closely related to the need for consent
to be specific (see below).
iv.

Detriment

Data controllers should demonstrate that it is possible for a data subject to refuse or withdraw
consent without detriment (see Recital 42 of the GDPR). Examples of detriment include
deception, intimidation, coercion, negative consequences, a clear disadvantage or costs
incurred by the data subject if he/she refuses or withdraws consent.
If a data controller demonstrates that a service includes the possibility to withdraw consent
without any detriment to the user, this may serve to show that consent was freely given. In
this respect, the GDPR does not preclude all incentives but places the onus on the data
controller to demonstrate that consent was freely given in all the circumstances.

9

See European Data Protection Board, Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller
under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC (WP217), Pages 16-17 (9 April 2014).
10

Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR provides a lawful basis where “processing is necessary for the performance of a
contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to
entering into a contract”.

4

Specific
Article 6(1)(a) of the GDPR states that consent must be given in relation to one or more
specific purposes. This means that data subjects should have a choice in relation to each
purpose11.
The requirement for consent to be specific is to ensure a level of user control and transparency
for the data subject. This requirement should be interpreted in line with the requirement for
‘granularity’ to obtain free consent (see Recital 43 of the GDPR).
To comply with the element of ‘specific’, data controllers must apply the following:
 purpose specification;
 granularity in consent requests; and
 clear separation of information relating to the obtaining of consent from information
relating to other matters.
Informed
The requirement for transparency is one of the fundamental principles of the GDPR and is
closely related to the principles of fairness and lawfulness (see Article 5 of the GDPR).
Therefore, providing information to data subjects prior to obtaining their consent is essential
to allow them to make informed decisions, understand what they are agreeing to and be able
to exercise their right to withdraw consent.
If a data controller does not comply with the requirements for informed consent, then consent
will be deemed invalid and the data controller may be in breach of Article 6 of the GDPR.
For consent to be informed, data controllers should provide individuals with the necessary
information to allow them to make an informed choice. Therefore, the Information
Commissioner recommends that at least the following information is provided –







the data controller’s identity;
the purpose of each of the processing operations for which consent is sought;
the type of data that will be collected and used;
the right to withdraw consent (see Article 7(3) of the GDPR);
information regarding the use of data for automated decision-making (see Article
22(2)(c) of the GDPR) where relevant; and
the possible risks of data transfers due to absence of an adequacy decision and of
appropriate safeguards (see Article 46 of the GDPR).

Data processors do not need to be named as part of the consent requirements, although to
comply with Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, data controllers must provide a full list of
recipients or categories of recipients including data processors.
In respect of how information is provided to individuals, the GDPR does not prescribe the form
or shape in which information must be provided to fulfil the requirement of informed consent.
However, the GDPR puts several requirements for informed consent, mainly in Article 7(2)
and Recital 32 of the GDPR.
Data controllers should also assess their target audience when providing information. For
example, if the target audience includes individuals that are underage, data controllers are
11

See European Data Protection Board, Opinion 3/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), (2 April 2013).

5

expected to make sure that the information provided is understandable for minors (see Recital
58 of the GDPR).
Unambiguous indication of wishes
Article 4(11) of the GDPR makes it clear that consent requires an unambiguous indication by
means of a statement or by a clear affirmative action from the data subject. In general terms,
it must be obvious that the individual has consented to the particular processing of their data.
A clear affirmative action means that the individual must have taken a deliberate action to
consent to the particular processing (see Recital 32 of the GDPR). The use of pre-ticked optin boxes is invalid under the GDPR. Further, silence or inactivity from the data subject, as well
as merely proceeding with a service cannot be regarded as an active indication of choice.
Data controllers should note that consent cannot be obtained through the same motion as
agreeing to a contract or accepting general terms and conditions of a service. Data controllers
should design consent mechanisms in ways that are clear to data subjects. They should also
avoid ambiguity and ensure that the action by which consent is given can be distinguished
from any other actions. For example, in an online context, continued use of a website by a
user is not conduct from which a data controller can infer consent by the data subject to
his/her personal data being processed. This is because actions such as scrolling or swiping
through a website can be difficult to distinguish from other activity or interaction by the user,
and therefore, determining that an unambiguous consent has been obtained may not be
possible.
Data controllers should also consider whether they can avoid the need for multiple consent
requests, in particular for the processing of personal data in the digital context. Multiple
consent requests that require answers from users through clicks and swipes may cause a
degree of click fatigue, which may diminish the warning effect of consent mechanisms at a
risk to the data subjects.
Most importantly, data controllers should obtain consent before they start processing personal
data for which consent is needed.

3. EXPLICIT CONSENT
Under the GDPR, explicit consent plays a role on the processing of special categories of
personal data (see Article 9 of the GDPR), the provisions on data transfers to third countries
or international organisations in the absence of adequate safeguards (see Article 49 of the
GDPR) and on automated individual decision-making, including profiling (see Article 22 of the
GDPR).
The term ‘explicit’ refers to the way consent is expressed by the data subject. It means that
the data subject must give an express statement of consent. A way of obtaining explicit
consent is to expressly confirm consent in a written statement. Where appropriate, the written

6

statement should be signed by the data subject to remove all possible doubt and potential
lack of evidence in the future12.
In terms of obtaining explicit consent in the digital or online context, a data subject may
provide the required statement by filling in an electronic form, by sending an email, by
uploading a scanned document carrying the signature of the data subject or by using an
electronic signature.
In respect of the use of oral statements, these can be sufficiently express to obtain valid
explicit consent. However, the use of oral statements may make it difficult for data controllers
to prove that all conditions for valid explicit consent were met when the statement was
recorded.
Explicit consent may be obtained through a telephone conversation. However, data controllers
should ensure that information about the choice is fair, intelligible and clear, and that it asks
for a specific confirmation from the data subject (for example, pressing a button or providing
oral confirmation).
Explicit consent may also be obtained from a visitor to a website if a data controller offers an
explicit consent screen that contains ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ boxes which clearly indicate the need for
consent. In this regard, data controllers must still ensure that the conditions for obtaining
valid consent under the GDPR are met (for example, informed consent).
Two stage verification of consent is another method that may be used to make sure explicit
consent is valid. For example, a data controller sends an email to a data subject requiring
their explicit consent for the processing of their personal data. The email explains the need
for consent to the use of the data for a specific purpose. If the data subject agrees to said
use of their personal data, the controller then asks the data subject to send an email reply
containing the statement ‘I agree’. After the reply is sent, the data subject receives a
verification link that must be clicked, or an SMS message with a verification code, to confirm
agreement.

4. ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS
OBTAINING VALID CONSENT

FOR

Article 7 of the GDPR sets out additional conditions for obtaining valid consent, with specific
provisions on keeping records of consent and the right to easily withdraw consent. The
additional conditions under Article 7 of the GDPR apply to consent referred to in other articles
of the GDPR.
In the following, guidance is provided in respect of the additional requirement to demonstrate
valid consent and on the right to withdraw consent.
Demonstrating consent
12

See European Data Protection Board, Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP187), Page 25 (13 July
2011).

7

Article 7(1) of the GDPR prescribes that data controllers must be able to demonstrate a data
subject’s consent. This means that the burden of proof will be on the data controller (see
Recital 42 of the GDPR).
Data controllers are free to develop methods to comply with this provision. However, the duty
to demonstrate that valid consent has been obtained should not in itself lead to excessive
amounts of additional data processing. This means that the data controller should only obtain
enough data to show consent was obtained but not collect any more information than
necessary.
Data controllers must be able to demonstrate consent for as long as the data processing
activity lasts. After the processing activity ends, proof of consent should be kept no longer
than strictly necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the establishment, exercise
or defence of legal claims, in accordance with Article 17(3)(b) and 17(3)(e) of the GDPR.
The GDPR does not impose a specific time limit in respect of how long consent will last. How
long consent lasts will depend on the context, scope of the original consent and the
expectations of the data subject. However, if the processing operations change or evolve
considerably, then the original consent will no longer be valid and new consent will need to
be sought.
Withdrawing consent
Article 7(3) of the GDPR prescribes that data controllers must ensure that consent can be
withdrawn by the data subject and that consent must be as easy to withdraw as it was to
give.
The GDPR does not state that giving and withdrawing consent must always be done through
the same action. However, when consent is obtained via electronic means through only one
mouse-click, swipe or keystroke, data subjects must, in practice, be able to withdraw consent
equally as easily. If consent is obtained through the use of a service-specific user interface,
the data subject must be able to withdraw consent via the same electronic interface, as
switching to another interface for the purpose of withdrawing consent would require undue
effort.
Data subjects should be able to withdraw consent without detriment. This means that data
controllers must, where possible, make withdrawal of consent free of charge or without
lowering service levels13.
Easy withdrawal of consent is a necessary aspect of valid consent under the GDPR. Therefore,
if the withdrawal right does not meet GDPR standards, then the consent mechanism used by
a data controller would not comply with the GDPR.

13

See European Data Protection Board, Opinion 4/2010 on the European code of conduct of FEDMA for the use
of personal data in direct marketing (WP174) and Opinion 5/2005 on the use of location data with a view to
providing value-added services (WP115).

8

5. CONSENT AND OTHER LAWFUL
GROUNDS IN ARTICLE 6 OF THE GDPR
Article 6 of the GDPR describes six lawful bases on which a data controller can rely on for the
processing of personal data. The application of one of these six lawful bases must be
established prior to the data controller undertaking the processing activity and in relation to a
specific purpose.
If a data controller decides to rely on consent for the processing of personal data, they must
be prepared to stop the processing if the data subject withdraws consent. Relying on consent
when the data controller can rely on other lawful bases for the processing of personal data
would be fundamentally unfair to the data subjects.
The above means that data controllers cannot swap from consent to other lawful bases for
the processing of personal data.

6. AREAS OF CONCERN IN THE GDPR
Children’s data
Article 8 of the GDPR and section 11 of the DPA introduce additional obligations to ensure an
enhanced level of data protection for children in relation to information society services14. The
reasons for the enhanced protection are specified in Recital 38 of the GDPR.
In relation to the offer of information society services directly to a child, the processing of the
personal data of a child shall be lawful where the child is at least 13 years old15. Therefore, if
the child is below the age of 13 years, the processing shall be lawful only if consent is given
or authorised by the holder of parental responsibility over the child.
Scientific research
The term ‘scientific research’ is not defined in the GDPR. However, Recital 159 of the GDPR
states that the processing of personal data for scientific research purposes should be
interpreted in a broad manner including for example technological development and
demonstration, fundamental research, applied research and privately funded research.
Notwithstanding the wording of Recital 159 of the GDPR, the Information Commissioner is of
14

Article 4(25) of the GDPR states that an information society service means a service as defined in Article 1(1)(b)
of Directive 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council. An indicative list of services not covered
by the above definition is set out in Annex I of Directive 2015/1535. See also Recital 18 of Directive 2000/31 of
the European Parliament and of the Council.
15

Article 8 of the GDPR and section 11(a) of the DPA.

9

the view that the term ‘scientific research’ should not be stretched beyond its common
meaning.
If data controllers rely on consent as the legal basis for conducting research, this consent
should be distinguished from other consent requirements that serve as an ethical standard or
procedural obligation16.
It’s important to note that consent is not the only legal basis that data controllers may rely
on, with regard to the processing of personal data for research purposes. As long as
appropriate safeguards are in place, in accordance with Article 89(1) of the GDPR, and the
processing is fair, lawful, transparent and complies with the data minimisation principle and
individuals’ rights, other lawful grounds may be relied on (for example, Article 6(1)(e) or Article
6(1)(f) of the GDPR). The same applies to special categories of personal data pursuant to the
derogation of Article 9(2)(j) of the GDPR.
Data subject’s rights
Processing activities that rely on consent will affect data subject’s rights. For example, data
subjects have the right to data portability (see Article 20 of the GDPR) when processing is
based on consent. On the other hand, a data subject’s right to object (see Article 21 of the
GDPR) does not apply when the processing is based on consent, although the right to
withdraw consent at any time provides a similar outcome.
Further, the rights provided under Articles 16 to 20 of the GDPR indicate that data subjects
have the right to erasure when consent has been withdrawn and the right to restriction,
rectification and access17.

7. CONSENT OBTAINED UNDER THE
PREVIOUS EU DATA PROTECTION
DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC
Consent obtained prior to the GDPR continues to be valid as long as it meets the conditions
for consent in the GDPR. Therefore, data controllers should review their arrangements to
ensure they meet the GDPR standard (see Recital 171 of the GDPR).
If data controllers find that the consent obtained prior to the GDPR does not meet the GDPR
standard, they will need to take appropriate action to comply with these standards (for
example, refreshing consent in a GDPR compliant manner). If a data controller is unable to
renew consent to meet the GDPR standard and is also unable (as a one-off situation) to rely
16

An example of a procedural obligation can be found in the Clinical Trials Regulation (Regulation (EU) No
536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (16th April 2014).
17

In cases where certain data processing activities are restricted in accordance with Article 18 of the GDPR,
consent of the data subject may be needed to lift restrictions.

10

on a different lawful basis for the processing of personal data, the processing activities must
be stopped. In any event, data controllers should observe the principles of lawful, fair and
transparent processing.

8. CONSENT IN PART 3 OF THE DPA
Part 3 of the DPA transposed the Data Protection Law Enforcement Directive 2016/680 into
local law. Part 3 of the DPA relates specifically to the protection of personal data when
processed by Law Enforcement Authorities (“LEAs”) for law enforcement purposes.
The standard of consent in Part 3 of the DPA is aligned with the GDPR. This Guidance Note
thereby also serves to assist LEAs ensure that valid consent is obtained when it is being relied
on to comply with Part 3 of the DPA.

IMPORTANT NOTE
This document is purely for guidance and aims to supplement the EDPB’s Guidelines on
consent under Regulation 2016/67918. The document does not constitute legal advice or legal
analysis. All organisations that process personal data need to be aware that the GDPR and
the DPA will apply directly to them. The responsibility to become familiar with the GDPR and
the DPA and comply with its provisions lies with the organisation.
Where necessary, the Information Commissioner will review this Guidance Note in accordance
with any updates or other developments. In the event of any conflict or inconsistencies
between this Guidance Note and the GDPR and the DPA, the GDPR and the DPA will take
precedence.

18

See European Data Protection Board, ‘Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679’ (Version
1.1) (4th May 2020).

11

12

