(11) International
Transfers
Guidance on the EU General Data
Protection Regulation 2016/679
15th September 2020
Guidance Note IR11/18 (v2)

1

CONTENTS
1.

INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................................................................................................1

2.

ARTICLE 45 OF THE GDPR: TRANSFERS ON THE BASIS OF AN ADEQUACY DECISION ..............................................................2

3.

ARTICLE 46 OF THE GDPR: TRANSFERS SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATE SAFEGUARDS................................................................ 3

4.

ARTICLE 49: DEROGATIONS FOR SPECIFIC SITUATIONS............................................................................................................... 6

SUMMARY
The General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”) primarily applies to data controllers and
processors located in the European Economic Area (the “EEA”), with some exceptions. Individuals
risk losing the protection of the GDPR if their personal data is transferred outside of the EEA. On that
basis, the GDPR restricts transfers of personal data outside the EEA, unless the rights of the
individuals in respect of their personal data is protected in another way, or one of a limited number
of exceptions applies. This Guidance Note aims to assist organisations identify the most appropriate
mechanism available under Article 45 or 46 of the GDPR to make a restricted transfer.
Article 45 of
the GDPR

o Transfers on
the basis of an
Adequacy
Decision

Article 46 of the GDPR

o Standard data protection clauses
adopted
by
the
European
Commission
o Standard data protection clauses
adopted by a supervisory authority
and approved by the European
Commission.
o Binding corporate rules
o Approved codes of conduct
o Approved certification mechanisms
o A legally binding and enforceable
instrument
between
public
authorities or bodies
o Administrative
arrangements
between public authorities or bodies
that include enforceable and
effective rights for the individuals,
which have been authorised by a
supervisory authority

Article 49 of the GDPR
Derogations
g
(exceptions)

o The data subject
j
has given
g
explicit
consent to the restricted transfer.

o The transfer is necessary for the

performance of a contract between
the data subject and the controller or
the implementation of pre-contractual
measures taken at the data subject’s
request.

o The transfer is necessary for the
conclusion or performance of a
contract concluded in the interest of
the data subject between the
controller and another natural or legal
person.
o The transfer is necessary for important
reasons of public interest.
o The transfer is necessary for the
establishment, exercise or defence off
legal
g claims.
o The transfer is necessary in order to
protect the vital interests of the data
subject or of other persons, where the
data subject
j
is physically or legally
g
incapable of giving
g
g consent.
o The restricted transfer is being
g made
from a public register.
g

o It is a one-off restricted transfer and it
is in your compelling
g legitimate
g
interests pursued by the controller.

1. INTRODUCTION
Flows of personal data to and from the European Union (the “EU”) are necessary for
international trade and international co-operation. However, if personal data is transferred
from the EU to data controllers and processors located outside the EU in third countries, a
third country being any country outside the European Economic Area (the “EEA”), individuals
risk losing the protection of the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (“GDPR”).
For this reason, the GDPR ‘restricts’ transfers of personal data outside the EEA, unless certain
provisions in Chapter V of the GDPR are met. Whilst Gibraltar has left the EU, there is currently
a transition period in place until 31st December 2020. It is important to note that in a “nodeal” Brexit scenario at the end of the transition period, transfers of personal data to Gibraltar
may be ‘restricted’.
The purpose of this document is to provide summary guidance on the provisions in Chapter V
of the GDPR regarding transfers of personal data to third countries or international
organisations. Whilst Gibraltar and the UK have left the EU, there remains a transition period
in place until 31st December 2020, during which time the GDPR will remain in effect in
Gibraltar. In the event of a “no-deal” Brexit occurring at the end of this transition period, this
guidance will also be useful to a data controller or processor in Gibraltar as it identifies the
mechanisms that may be used to maintain ongoing data flows from the EU/EEA, for example
by using ‘standard contractual clauses’. However, for further guidance on preparing for a
“no-deal” Brexit please refer to Guidance Note IR05/181.
The Information Commissioner2 (the “Commissioner”) will update this document in accordance
with any developments.

Acknowledgements
Where appropriate Gibraltar’s Information Commissioner will seek to ensure that locally published guidance notes
are consistent with others made available by fellow Commissioners in other jurisdictions.
As well as reflecting the existing data protection standards and practices in Gibraltar, parts of this document reflect
and/or incorporate the guidance from the European Data Protection Board, the UK’s Information Commissioner’s
office and the Irish Data Protection Commissioner’s office.

1

See Guidance Note IR05/18 Guidance on the General Data Protection Regulation: (10) Getting ready for a
“no-deal” Brexit <https://www.gra.gi/gdpr-10-getting-ready-for-brexit>.

2

The Chief Executive Officer of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.

1

2. ARTICLE 45 OF THE GDPR:
TRANSFERS ON THE BASIS OF AN
ADEQUACY DECISION
The first thing to consider when transferring personal data to a third country is if there is an
‘adequacy decision’. An adequacy decision means that the European Commission has decided
that a third country or an international organisation (outside the EEA) ensures an adequate
level of data protection.
When assessing the adequacy of the level of protection, the European Commission takes into
account elements such as the laws, respect for human rights and freedoms, national security,
data protection rules, the existence of a data protection authority and binding commitments
entered into by the country in respect of data protection.
The effect of such an adequacy decision is that personal data can flow from the EEA to that
third country, without restriction.
It is important to note that adequacy decisions made prior to the GDPR remain in force, unless
there is a further European Commission decision which decides otherwise. The European
Commission plans to review these decisions at least once every four years.
All European Commission adequacy decisions to date also cover restricted transfers made
from EEA states.
An up to date list of the countries which have an adequacy finding can be viewed on the
European Commission's data protection website3. These should be checked regularly for any
changes.
AT THE END OF THE BREXIT TRANSITION PERIOD
In regard to data transfers to Gibraltar from the EEA –
1. Her Majesty’s Government of Gibraltar (“HMGoG”) has made clear its intention to seek
adequacy decisions for Gibraltar to ensure the ongoing free flow of data to Gibraltar.
However, when the transition period ends, adequacy decisions regarding Gibraltar may
have not been finalised;
2. Organisations should therefore plan to implement appropriate safeguards (see section
3).
In regard to data transfers from Gibraltar –
1. HMGoG has confirmed that, after the transition period ends, transfers to the EEA and
the UK from Gibraltar will not be restricted. This means you will able to continue to send
personal data from Gibraltar to the EEA and the UK without any additional requirements.

3

See EU Commission, ‘Adequacy decisions’ <https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/datatransfers-outside-eu/adequacy-protection-personal-data-non-eu-countries_en> Accessed 15 February 2019.

2

2. Rules on transfers to countries other than the UK or EEA countries are likely to remain
similar. The Commissioner expects HMGoG to confirm that Gibraltar will reflect existing
European Commission adequacy decisions.

3. ARTICLE 46 OF THE GDPR:
TRANSFERS SUBJECT TO
APPROPRIATE SAFEGUARDS
In the absence of an adequacy decision, the GDPR does allow a restricted transfer if the data
controller or processor has provided ‘appropriate safeguards’. The safeguards may include:
Standard data protection clauses adopted by the European Commission
For the majority of organisations, the most relevant alternative legal basis to an adequacy
decision would be these clauses. They are model data protection clauses that have been
approved by the European Commission and enable the free flow of personal data when
embedded in a contract. The clauses contain contractual obligations on the organisation
sending the personal data (the “Data Exporter”) and the organisation receiving the personal
data (the “Data Importer”), and rights for the individuals whose personal data is transferred.
Individuals can directly enforce those rights against the Data Exporter and the Data Importer.
These are known as the ‘standard contractual clauses’ (“SCCs”).
The SCCs published by the European Commission are the following:
x 2001 controller to controller
x 2004 controller to controller
x 2010 controller to processor
The Commissioner has produced template contracts, which include explanatory notes and
guidance:
x
x

controller to controller transfers
controller to processor transfers

For most businesses, a convenient and appropriate safeguard would be to use
SCCs.
It is important to note that the European Commission has advised the EDPB that it plans to
update the existing SCCs for the GDPR. Until then, EU-based data controllers can still enter
into contracts that include the standard contractual clauses based on the EU Directive
95/46/EC, which pre-dated the GDPR.

3

Please check the Commissioner’s and the European Commission websites regularly for any
updates.
AT THE END OF THE BREXIT TRANSITION PERIOD
In regard to the transfer of personal data to Gibraltar from the EEA –
1. in the absence of an Adequacy Decision for Gibraltar, data controllers in the EEA could
use the SCCs to maintain the flow of data to Gibraltar.
In regard to the transfer of personal data from Gibraltar –
1. SCCs can continue to be used for transfers to countries other than the UK or EEA
jurisdictions.
2. SCCs are not required for transfers to the EEA or the UK.
Standard data protection clauses adopted by a supervisory authority and
approved by the European Commission
Personal data may also be transferred to a third country if organisations enter into a contract
incorporating standard data protection clauses adopted by the Commissioner. However,
neither the Commissioner nor any other EEA supervisory authority has yet adopted any
standard data protection clauses. They are likely to be similar to those adopted by the
European Commission (above), but will be first adopted by the supervisory authority and then
approved by the European Commission.
Please check the Commissioner’s website as more details about using this option will be added
in due course.
Binding corporate rules
Binding Corporate Rules (“BCRs”) form a legally binding internal code of conduct operating
within a multinational group, which applies to transfers of personal data from the group's EEA
entities to the group’s non-EEA entities. This group may be a corporate group or a group of
undertakings engaged in a joint economic activity, such as franchises or joint ventures. BCRs
are legally binding data protection rules with enforceable data subject rights contained in
them, which are approved by the competent supervisory authority.
There are two types of BCRs that can be approved:
x
x

BCRs for controllers - used by the group entity to transfer data that they have
responsibility for, such as employee or supplier data. These can be found on the European
Commission's data protection website4.
BCRs for processors - used by entities acting as processors for other controllers and are
normally added as an addendum to the Service Level Agreement or Processor contract.
These can be found on the European Commission's data protection website5.

4

See EU Commission, ‘Working Document on Binding Corporate Rules for Controllers’
<https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614109> Accessed 15 February 2019.

5

See EU Commission, ‘Working Document on Binding Corporate Rules for Processors’
<https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614110> Accessed 15 February 2019.

4

Further provisions on the use of BCRs as an appropriate safeguard for personal data transfers
are set out in Article 47 of the GDPR.
Approved codes of conduct
The use of codes of conduct (“Codes”) as a transfer tool, under specific circumstances, was
introduced in Article 46.2(e) of the GDPR. Codes are voluntary and set out specific data
protection rules for categories of controllers and processors. They can be a useful and effective
accountability tool, providing a detailed description of what is the most appropriate, legal and
ethical behaviour within a sector. From a data protection viewpoint, Codes can operate as a
rulebook for controllers and processors who design and implement GDPR-compliant data
processing activities that give operational meaning to the principles of data protection set out
in European and national law.
Therefore, personal data may be transferred to a third country if the Data Importer (data
receiver) has signed up to a Code, which has been approved by a supervisory authority. The
Code must include appropriate safeguards to protect the rights of individuals whose personal
data has been transferred, and which can be directly enforced.
It is important to note that approved codes of conduct are not yet in use and the EDPB is
planning to issue separate specific guidance relating to this, at a later date. Please check the
Commissioner’s website as more details about using this option will be added in due course.
Approved certification mechanisms
As introduced in Article 46.2(f) of the GDPR, certification mechanisms may be developed to
demonstrate the existence of appropriate safeguards provided by controllers and processors
in third countries. These controllers and processors would also make binding and enforceable
commitments to apply the safeguards including provisions for data subject rights. Therefore,
personal data may be transferred to a third country if the Data Importer (data receiver) has
a certification, under a scheme approved by a supervisory authority.
It is important to note that approved certification schemes are not yet in use and the EDPB is
also planning to issue separate specific guidance relating to this, at a later date. Please check
the Commissioner’s website as more details about using this option will be added in due
course.
A legally binding and enforceable instrument between public authorities or bodies
An organisation can make a restricted transfer if it is a public authority or body and is
transferring to another public authority or body, and with both public authorities having signed
a contract or another instrument that is legally binding and enforceable (Article 46 (2)(a) of
the GDPR). This contract or instrument must include enforceable rights and effective remedies
for individuals whose personal data is transferred. However, this mechanism is not an
appropriate safeguard if either the transferring/sending organisation (Data Exporter) or the
receiving organisation (Data Importer) is a private body or an individual.
Administrative arrangements between public authorities or bodies that include
enforceable and effective rights for the individuals, which have been authorised
by a supervisory authority

5

If a public authority or body does not have the power to enter into legally binding and
enforceable arrangements (as noted above), it may consider an administrative
arrangement (“Administrative Arrangement”) that includes enforceable and effective
individual rights, to make a restricted transfer (Article 46(3)(b) of the GDPR). However, this
is not an appropriate safeguard for restricted transfers between a public and private body.
Further, the administrative arrangement must be individually authorised by the supervisory
authority in the country (or countries) from which the transfer is being made. If the restricted
transfer is to be made from Gibraltar, the Commissioner must approve it.
It is important to note that Administrative Arrangements are not yet in use and the EDPB is
currently working on updated guidance in relation to this transfer mechanism. Please check
the Commissioner’s website as more details about using this option will be added in due
course.

4. ARTICLE 49: DEROGATIONS FOR
SPECIFIC SITUATIONS
Derogations under Article 49 of the GDPR are exemptions from the general principle that
personal data may only be transferred to a third country if an adequate level of protection is
provided for in that third country. A Data Exporter (data sender) should first endeavour to
frame transfers with one of the mechanisms guaranteeing adequate safeguards listed in the
foregoing, and only in their absence use the derogations provided in Article 49(1) of the
GDPR. The following derogations or exceptions allow restricted transfers in specific situations:
a) If there is a medical emergency and the data is needed to give medical care, or risk
serious harm to the individual, and the individual is (physically or legally) unable to
give his or her consent, then an organisation can rely on an exemption to make the
restricted transfer (Article 49(1)(f) of the GDPR).
b) The other exceptions are very limited in scope and broadly cover –
- the individual's explicit consent;
- an occasional transfer to perform a contract with an individual;
- an occasional transfer for important reasons of public interest;
- an occasional transfer to establish, make or defend legal claims;
- transfers from public registers; or
- a truly exceptional transfer for a compelling legitimate interest.
It is important to note that the EDPB guidance document6 on these derogations should always
be consulted to ensure that they can be relied upon for the specific scenarios that
organisations are dealing with.

6

See EU Commission, ‘Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679’
<https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-22018-derogations-article-49under-regulation_en> Accessed 15 February 2019.

6

IMPORTANT NOTE
This document does not constitute legal advice or legal analysis. All organisations that process
personal data need to be aware that the GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2004 (“DPA”) will
apply directly to them. The responsibility to become familiar with the GDPR and the DPA and
comply with its provisions lies with the organisation.
Where necessary, the Commissioner will review this Guidance Note in accordance with any
updates or other developments. In the event of any conflict or inconsistencies between this
Guidance Note and the GDPR and the DPA, the GDPR and DPA will take precedence.

7

8

