The Data Protection (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law, 2017
(“the Law”)

Notification of Personal Data Breaches
Introduction
The Law is based around seven principles of ‘good information handling’. These principles
give people (data subjects) specific rights in relation to their personal information and place
certain obligations on those organisations that are responsible for processing it.
Breach reporting is a specific requirement under the Law and a copy of the Law can be found
here.
This guidance explains to organisations when and how to notify the Office of the Data
Protection Authority (“the ODPA”) about a personal data breach.
Breach reports can be made via the secure breach reporting facility on our website :https://odpc.gg/breach-reporting/.
Overview
•

This guidance applies to controllers, as defined under section 111 of the Law .

•

Controllers must provide the ODPA with written notice of a personal data breach (a
breach) as soon as practicable and in any event no later than 72 hours after becoming
aware of the breach. Where full details are not yet known, the initial notification may be
followed up with further details as soon as practicable.

•

All breaches that come to the attention of the controller after 25 May 2018 must be
considered for reporting, regardless of when they occurred.

Page 1 of 10

July 2019

•

Where a controller uses the services of a processor, the processor is required under
section 42(1) of the Law to give the controller notice of a breach as soon as they become
aware of it.

•

Work is ongoing to prepare the reporting mechanism controllers will use to report a
breach to the ODPA. Further information will be released once this is finalised. In the
meantime, a form showing the information that will need to be reported is attached at
the end of this guidance for your information.

•

If it is likely that the breach will pose a high risk to the significant interests of a data
subject, the controller must also notify those individuals:
o
o
o
o

•

As soon as practicable;
In clear and plain language;
Describing the nature of the breach; and
Providing them with the name and contact details of the controller’s data
protection officer (DPO) or other relevant contact, a description of the likely
consequences of the breach and the measures taken or proposed to be taken by
the controller to address the breach including, where appropriate, measures to
mitigate its possible adverse effects.

Controllers must also keep a log of any breaches in accordance with section 42(6) of the
Law. A template form for this purpose can be found at Appendix 1 but organisations can
use their own if they wish.

Relevant breaches
Under section 42 of the Law, controllers have a specific obligation to notify the ODPA –– about
a breach, unless the breach is ‘unlikely to result in a risk to the significant interests of a data
subject.
They are also required to keep a log of those breaches in accordance with section 42(6) of the
Law.
Controllers are also required to disclose details of the breach to affected data subjects where
there is a high risk to their significant interests (section 43)
It is important to remember that the purpose of these provisions is to protect individuals’
personal data by ensuring appropriate steps are taken. Therefore, it is important for
organisations to consider the type of personal data they hold and whether any breach could
adversely affect an individual – for example by causing financial loss, reputational damage or
identity fraud both at the time of the breach and in the future.
If an organisation is responsible for delivering part of a service for a controller but does not
have a direct contractual relationship with the data subject, it does not have to notify the
ODPA of a breach but it must immediately notify the relevant controller (who will have the
contractual relationship with the data subject.) It will be for the controller to notify the ODPA
and the data subject, as appropriate.
What is a breach?
A breach is defined in section 111(1) of the Law as:

Page 2 of 10

“personal data breach” means a breach of security leading to the accidental or
unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to,
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed”
There will be a breach whenever any personal data (including any special category data) is
accidentally lost, corrupted or disclosed, or if someone accesses it or passes it on without
proper authorisation to do so.
A breach may be broadly defined as an incident that affected the availability, integrity or
confidentiality of the personal data. This therefore includes a network intrusion by an
unauthorised third party and also a deliberate or accidental act by a service provider that
disrupts the availability of personal data to those that need to use it. For example, the
unintended deletion of personal data where no appropriate back-up exists would constitute
a breach.
More information on what constitutes ‘personal data’ can be found here.
Notifying the ODPC
Section 42(2) of the Law states:
‘Where a controller becomes aware of a personal data breach, the controller must
give the Authority written notice of it as soon as practicable, and in any event, no
later than 72 hours after becoming so aware,
Controllers must therefore tell the ODPA no later than 72 hours of becoming aware that a
breach has occurred. If a notification is not made to the ODPA within 72 hours, the
notification must be accompanied by an explanation of the reasons for the delay (section
42(3)(e) of the Law).
It is accepted that in some cases it may not be feasible to provide full details within 72 hours.
In such cases, section 42(4) of the Law states that:
‘Where it is impracticable to give the Authority all of the required information at
the same time as the notice is given, the controller may provide the information in
phases as soon as practicable’
Accordingly, a controller should still make the initial notification within 72 hours, to inform
the ODPA that a breach has been detected and to provide the relevant details. This should
then be followed up with any of the outstanding information and a follow up form is attached
at the end of this document.
It may be the case that controllers need to undertake an investigation to understand exactly
what has happened and what needs to be done to mitigate the breach, and that in some cases
this will take longer than 72 hours. However, controllers must still notify the ODPA of the
breach within 72 hours of having become aware of it and submit a follow-up notification as
appropriate.
Breach reports can be made via the secure breach reporting facility on our website :https://odpa.gg/breach-reporting/.

Page 3 of 10

What information to include
The initial notification (within 72 hours) should ordinarily include the following summary
information:
• The name of the controller
• The name and contact details of the DPO or other point of contact where more
information can be obtained
• Whether it is a first or subsequent notification
• The date and time of the breach (or best estimate)
• The date and time of the controller becoming aware of the breach
• The nature and content of the personal data concerned
• Technical and organisational measures applied (or that will be applied) to the
affected personal data
• The name of the organisation affected by the data breach (if different from the
controller)
If possible, the initial notification should also include the more detailed information set out
below. Otherwise, this should be included in any follow notifications until full details have
been provided:
• A summary of the incident that caused the breach, including the physical location
of the breach
• The number and category of data subjects concerned
• The number and category of personal data records concerned
• The likely consequences of the personal data breach and potential adverse effects
on the data subjects
• The technical and organisational measures taken or proposed to be taken to
mitigate those potential adverse effects
• The content of any notification provided to affected data subjects (where
relevant)
• The means of communication used to notify the affected data subjects (where
relevant)
• The number of data subjects notified (where relevant)
• Whether the breach affects data subjects in any jurisdiction other than the
Bailiwick of Guernsey
• Details relating the notification with any other data protection authorities
• If these details cannot be included in any second notification, a reasoned
justification for the further delay
What happens next
The information provided will be recorded by the ODPA and used to assess whether the
controller is complying or has complied with its obligations under the Law, including the duty
to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to safeguard the personal data of
the data subjects, the duty to notify the ODPA of a breach and the duty to notify data subject
of a breach which is likely to result in a risk to their significant interests.
Upon submission of an initial notification a controller will receive confirmation of receipt from
the ODPA. An officer of the ODPA will contact the controller to indicate what the next steps
will be.

Page 4 of 10

Where a breach has affected or is likely to affect data subjects in jurisdictions outside of the
Bailiwick of Guernsey, the ODPA may be required to communicate and cooperate with the
relevant data protection authority in that jurisdiction / those jurisdictions in accordance with
its statutory duties.
Notifying Data Subjects
Section 43 of the Law states:
“Where a controller becomes aware of a personal data breach that is likely to pose
a high risk to the significant interests of a data subject, the controller must give the
data subject written notice of the breach as soon as practicable.
Controllers are therefore also required to notify those individuals affected by the breach if
such is likely to result in any risk to their significant interests. Examples of such risks include
financial loss, reputational damage, adverse impact of safety or wellbeing, and identity fraud.
This list is not exhaustive and decisions should be informed by the nature, scope, context and
purpose of the compromised personal data.
Whether the breach is likely to result in a risk to the significant interests of the data subject is
primarily a decision for the controller and should be based on the circumstances of the case.
The ODPA considers that controllers should consider the following factors:
a. The nature and content of the personal data
b. Whether it includes special category data (as defined in the Law)
c. What harm could be caused to the individual both now and in the future – and in
particular, whether there is a threat to the individual’s physical safety or
reputation, identity theft, fraud, financial loss, psychological distress or
humiliation
d. Who may now have access to the data, to the extent this is known.
Section 43 of the Law states that a controller does not have to notify data subjects if the
“the controller has established and carried out appropriate technical and
organisational measures to protect personal data, and those measures were
applied to the personal data affected by the breach, in particular those that render
the personal data unintelligible to any person who is not authorised to access it,
such as encryption” or if the controller has taken “subsequent measures which
ensure that the high risk to the significant interests of data subjects referred to in
subsection (1) is no longer likely to materialize”].
Similarly, the controller does not have to notify data subjects “if performing that duty would
involve disproportionate effort”, in which case the controller must publish a notice (without
making public any personal data) or take any other step equivalent to publication in order to
inform the data subject in an equally effective manner” (section 43(5) of the Law).
What to tell data subjects
In accordance with section 43 of the Law any notice to data subjects must include the
following information:

Page 5 of 10

• A description of the nature of the breach
• The name and contact details of the data protection officer or other source where more
information can be obtained
• A description of the likely consequences of the breach
• A description of the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controller to address
the breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate the possible adverse
effects.
In addition, it is recommended that the notification to data subjects includes a helpline
number or web address, if possible.
The notification must be in clear and plain language. You may wish to consider publishing the
notification in more than one language, depending on the nationalities of the data subjects
affected.
It should be noted that whilst the decision whether or not to notify the affected data subject
of the breach initially rests with the controller, the ODPA can require the controller to do so
if, in its opinion, there exists a high risk to the significant interests of the data subject.
When to notify data subjects
Controllers must notify affected data subjects without undue delay – in other words, as soon
as the controller has sufficient information about the breach.
Keeping a Log of Personal Data breaches
Section 42(6) of the Law requires controllers to keep a written record of any breach:
“In any case, a controller must keep a written record of each personal data breach
of which the controller is aware, including –
(a) The facts relating to the breach,
(b) The effects of the breach,
(c) The remedial action taken, and
Any steps taken by the controller to comply with this section, including whether the
controller gave a notice to the Authority under subsection (2), and if so, a copy of
the notice..”
The ODPA has created a template log to help you record the information you need – see
Appendix 1.
The ODPA will inspect such logs if a controller becomes subject to an audit pursuant to
Schedule 7, paragraph 9 of the Law. The logs and any other relevant information will be used
to check that controllers are complying with their obligations under the Law.
More Information
If you need any further information about this, or any other aspect of the Law, please contact
the ODPA or go to website www.odpa.gg.

Page 6 of 10

Checklist
☐ We are clear about our breach reporting duties
☐ We have robust breach detection in place
☐ We have a breach response plan
☐ We have allocated responsibility for the handling, management, and oversight of
breaches
☐ All staff have received appropriate training about prevention, detection and
management of breaches
☐ We have a process to consider the impact of the breach on individuals
☐ We have a process to inform affected individuals where necessary
☐ We document all breaches regardless of the need to report

Page 7 of 10

WRITTEN RECORD OF PERSONAL DATA BREACH
TEMPLATE FOR CONTROLLERS
_____________________________________________________________

Section 42 of the Data Protection (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law, 2017 sets out the legal obligations of a
controller in the event of a personal data breach. Section 42(6) states –

“In any case, a controller must keep a written record of each personal data breach of which the controller is
aware, including –
(a) the facts relating to the breach,
(b) the effects of the breach,
(c) the remedial action taken, and
(d) any steps taken by the controller to comply with this section, including whether the controller gave a notice
to the Authority under subsection (2), and if so, a copy of the notice.”

This document allows affected controllers to record the required information in a uniform format to
assist with internal record keeping obligations as well as requests for information from the Office of the Data
Protection Authority (ODPA) that may follow. It does not constitute legal advice and each case should be
reviewed in detail by the controller to assess the specific requirements.

Steps to take
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Immediately collect as much information as possible
Ensure your DPO is informed and updated
Report breach to ODPA
Consider contacting interested parties (law enforcement, service
provider)
Implement containment measures
Assess the harm
Consider notification of data subjects
Complete internal written record of the breach

Page 8 of 10

APPENDIX 1

COMPANY NAME
CONFIDENTIAL

HIGHLY

FORM FOR RECORDING A PERSONAL DATA BREACH – INTERNAL USE

YOUR NAME:
Today’s Date:

DEPT/DIVISION:
E-MAIL ADDRESS:

Tel No:

Time & Date of Incident:

Time & Date Incident was discovered:

Who Was Notified:

Time of Notification:

Brief Summary of Incident: (include website URLs, suspect name(s), impacted system(s), other relevant
data...)

Number of data subjects affected:

Location of affected data subjects:

Type of personal data involved:

Any special category data? If so, what?

Page 9 of 10

N

Y

Did you witness the incident yourself?

Did others witness the incident? (if yes, specify below)

Summary of action taken since discovery:

Did you report this incident to: (Please circle all that apply)

Line Manager – IT Director – Internal Auditor – Data Protection Officer- ODPA – Law Enforcement
– Guernsey Financial Services Commission

Initiated By:

Date:

Reviewed By:

Page 10 of 10

Date:

