Unofficial Translation

ACT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 7 OF 1992
CONCERNING
BANKING
AS AMENDED BY
ACT
NUMBER 10 OF 1998
WITH THE BLESSING OF GOD ALMIGHTY,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

1.

Act Number 7 of 1992
Considering

: a. that to maintain sustainable national development in
order to bring to Indonesians justice and prosperity
based on the Pancasila and the 1945 Constitution,
greater attention is required to the harmony, congruity,
and balance of the elements of the Trilogy of
Development in the implementation of economic
development in line with the principles of family values;
b. that banks, based on the principles of economic
democracy and having the primary function of
mobilizing and channeling funds from the public, play a
strategic role in support of the implementation of
national development for the purpose of improving
equitable distribution of development and its fruits,
economic growth, and national stability, aimed towards
improving the standard of living of the common people;
c. that the rapid changes taking place constantly in both the
national and international economy, coupled with
challenges of ever increasing complexity, must
continually be kept up by appropriate response from
national banks in the performance of their functions and
responsibilities to the public;
d. that Act Number 14 of 1967 concerning Banking
Principles and several other Acts concerning banking, in
force at this time, are no longer able to keep pace with

2
the changes taking place in the national and international
economy;
e. that to achieve the purpose set forth above, it is
necessary to draw up a new Act concerning Banking.
In view of

: 1. Article 5 paragraph (1), Article 20 paragraph (1), and
Article 33 of the 1945 Constitution;
2. Act Number 5 of 1962 concerning Regional Government
Enterprise (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Number 10 of 1962, Supplement to the State Gazette of
the Republic of Indonesia Number 2387);
3. Act Number 12 of 1967 concerning the Basic Principles
of Cooperatives (State Gazette of the Republic of
Indonesia Number 23 of 1967, Supplement to the State
Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Number 2832);
4. Act Number 13 of 1968 concerning Central Bank (State
Gazette of the Republic Indonesia Number 63 of 1968,
Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic
Indonesia Number 2865);
5. Act Number 9 of 1969 on the Enactment of the
Government Regulation in substitution of Act Number 1
of 1969 concerning Forms of State Enterprises (State
Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Number 16 of
1969, Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of
the Indonesia Number 2890) into Act (State Gazette of
the Republic of Indonesia Number 40 0f 1969,
Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of
Indonesia Number 2904).

With the approval of
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
HAS DECREED :

To enact

: THE ACT CONCERNING BANKING.

3

2.

Act Number 10 of 1998
Considering

: a. that national development is a continuous development
undertaking with the aim of realizing Indonesian people
justice and prosperity based on Pancasila and the 1945
Constitution;
b. that in facing the rapid development of national
economy, competitiveness of national economy and
integrated national economy with challenges of ever
increasing complexity and more developed financial
system, an adjustment in the economic policies,
including Banking, is needed;
c. that in entering of globalization era and due to the
ratification of several international agreements on trade
in goods and services, a revision on the regulations in
economic sector, especially Banking sector, is needed;
d. that based on considerations as referred to in letter a,
letter b, and letter c above, it is considered necessary to
amend Act Number 7 of 1992 concerning Banking with
an Act;

In view of

: 1. Article 5 paragraph (1), Article 20 paragraph (1),
Article 23 paragraph (3) and Article 33 of the 1945
Constitution;
2. Act Number 13 of 1968 concerning Central Bank (State
Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Number 63 of 1968,
Supplement to the State Gazette Number 2865);
3. Act Number 7 of 1992 concerning Banking (State
Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Number 31 of 1992,
Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3472);

With the approval of
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

4
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
HAS DECREED :
To enact

: THE ACT CONCERNING THE AMENDMENT OF ACT
NUMBER 7 OF 1992 CONCERNING BANKING.

CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
The terminologies used in this Act shall have the following meanings :
1. Banking is anything related to a Bank, comprising the institutions, business
activities, and procedures as well as processes in the realization of such
business activities;
2.

Bank is a corporate entity mobilizing funds from the public in the forms of
Deposits and channeling them to the public in the forms of Credit and/or other
forms in order to improve the living standards of the common people;

3.

Commercial Bank is a Bank which based its activities on conventional and/or
Syariah Principles in doing so provides services in payment transactions;

4.

Rural Bank is a Bank which based its activities on conventional or Syariah
Principles in doing so shall not provide any service in payment transactions;

5.

Deposits are funds entrusted to the Bank by the public based on an agreement
in the forms of Demand Deposits, Time Deposits, Certificate of Deposits,
Savings and/or other similar forms;

6.

Demand Deposit is a deposit which may be withdrawn at any time by means of a
cheque, ‘bilyet giro’, other payment order, or by transfers;

7.

Time Deposit is a Deposit which may only be withdrawn at a certain time based
on an agreement between the Depositor and the Bank concerned;

8.

Certificate of Deposit is a Deposit in the form of Time Deposit, the certificate of
which is negotiable;

9.

Saving Deposit is a Deposit which can only be withdrawn according to certain
agreed conditions, but which shall not be withdrawn by means of a cheque,
‘bilyet giro’, and/or other equivalent instruments;

5
10. Securities is a note, bill of exchange, share, bond, credit security, or any
derivative of securities, or any other interests, or liabilities of the issuer, issued
in a form negotiable in the capital market and money market;
11. Credit is the provision of money or equivalent claim to money based on a loan
agreement between a Bank and another party, obligating the borrowing party to
repay his debt after a certain period with interest.
12. Financing based on Syariah Principles is the provision of money or equivalent
claim to money based on a Financing agreement between Bank and another
party obligating the party receiving the fund to repay the Financing after a
certain period with fees or profit share;
13. Syariah Principles are rules of agreement based on Islamic Law between Bank
and other party for depositing fund and/or financing business activities, or other
activities which is stated as in accordance to Syariah Principles, i.e. financing
based on profit sharing principle (mudharabah), financing based on equity
participation (musharakah), sales of goods with profit principle (murabahah), or
financing of capital goods based on pure lease without option (ijarah) or with
an option of ownership transfer of goods leased from Bank to the other party
(ijarah wa iqtina);
14. Custodial service is the keeping of property based on a contract or agreement
between a Commercial Bank and the depositor of the property, provided that the
Commercial Bank concerned has no right of ownership on the property
concerned;
15. Trustee is a business activity which may be conducted by a Commercial Bank
to represent the interest of security holders based on an agreement between the
Commercial Bank and the issuer of Securities concerned;
16. Customer is any party who uses Bank’s services;
17. Depositor is a Customer who places fund in the form of Deposits according to an
agreement between Bank and the Customer concerned;
18. Debtor is a Customer who receives Credit facility or Financing based on Syariah
Principles or other similar forms based on an agreement between Bank and the
Customer concerned;

19. Branch Office is an office of a Bank which directly responsible to its head office,
with a permanent address of business place where the Branch Office doing its
business;

6

20. Bank Indonesia is the central bank of the Republic of Indonesia as stipulated in
the prevailing law;
21. The Chairmen of Bank Indonesia is the Chairmen as stated in the prevailing law;
22. Affiliated Parties are:
a. a member of the board of commissioners, auditors, the board of directors, or
their attorneys, the officers, or the employees of a Bank;
b. a member of the board of management, auditors, board of directors, or their
attorneys, the officers, or the employees of a Bank, especially for a Bank
established in the legal form of a cooperative in accordance with the
prevailing law;
c. a party providing services to the Bank, such as public accountant, appraiser,
legal consultant and other consultants;
d. a party which according to Bank Indonesia’s judgement influences the
management of a Bank, i.e. shareholders and their relatives, the relatives of
the board of commissioners, the relatives of the auditors, the relatives of the
board of directors, and the relatives of the board of management;
23. Collateral is an additional guarantee provided by a debtor to a Bank in order to
obtain a Credit facility or Financing based on Syariah Principles;
24. Deposit Protection Institution is a legal entity conducting deposit protection
activities on Deposit Customer, through insurance scheme, pooling fund or other
schemes;
25. Merger is the combining of two or more Banks by retaining the existence of one
Bank and winding up the other Banks with or without liquidating them;
26. Consolidation is combining of two or more Banks by establishing a new Bank
and winding up such existing Banks with or without liquidating them;
27. Acquisition is the takeover of the ownership of a Bank;
28. Bank Secrecy is anything related to information regarding a Depositor and his
Deposits.

CHAPTER II
PRINCIPLE, FUNCTION, AND OBJECTIVE
Article 2

7

Banks in Indonesia shall conduct their business according to the principle of
economic democracy applying the prudential principle.

Article 3
The primary function of banks in Indonesia is to mobilize and to channel funds from
the public.

Article 4
Banks in Indonesia shall have the objective of supporting national development for
the purpose of improving equitable distribution, economic growth, and dynamic
sustainable growth, and dynamic sustainable national stability, aimed at improving
the welfare of the common people.

CHAPTER III
CATEGORIES AND OPERATIONS OF BANKS
Part One
Categories of Banks
Article 5
(1) By category, banks consist of:
a. Commercial Banks;
b. Rural Banks.
(2) A Commercial Bank may operate exclusively in a particular activity or focus
greater attention to a particular activity.

Part Two
Operations of a Commercial Bank
Article 6
The operations of a Commercial Bank shall encompass :
a. mobilizing funds from the public in the form of deposits, comprising demand
deposits, time deposits, certificate of deposits, savings and/or other equivalent
forms of deposits;
b. extending credits;
c issuing notes;

8
d. purchasing, selling or guaranteeing against own risk or on behalf of and/or at the
request of a customer :
1. bills of exchange, including banker’s acceptances of which the maturity is no
longer than the common practice of trading such documents;
2. notes and other commercial paper of which the maturity is no longer than the
common practice of trading such documents;
3. treasury bills and government guarantees;
4. Bank Indonesia Certificates (SBIs);
5. bonds;
6. commercial paper with a maturity of up to 1 (one) year;
7. other securities with a maturity of up to 1 (one) year.
e. transferring money, either on own behalf or at the request of a customer;
f. placing funds in, borrowing funds from, or lending funds to other banks, whether
by letter, telecommunications device, or by sight draft, cheque, or other means;
g. accepting payments in respect or claims for securities, settling accounts with or
among third parties;
h. providing safety deposits boxes for valuable goods and papers;
i. undertaking custodial activities on behalf of another party based on contracts;
j. undertaking placement of funds among customers in the form of securities not
listed in the stock exchange;
k. Deleted
l. conducting business in factoring, credit cards, and trusteeship;
m. providing financing and/or conducting other activities based on Syariah
Principles, in accordance with the regulations stipulated by Bank Indonesia; and
n. conducting other business commonly undertaken by banks providing that such
activities shall not be in contravention of this Act and prevailing laws.

Article 7
In addition to conducting the banking operations as referred to in Article 6, a
Commercial Bank may also :
a. conduct activities in foreign exchange with due observance to the regulations of
Bank Indonesia;
b. conduct equity participation in other banks or business entities operating in
financial services, such as leasing, venture capital, securities house, insurance,
and securities clearing house, with due observance of the regulations stipulated by
Bank Indonesia;
c. conduct temporary equity participation to settle problems of bad debt or bad
Financing based on Syariah Principles, on the condition that in due time the
equity participation shall be withdrawn, with due observance to the regulations
stipulated by Bank Indonesia; and

9
d. act as founder and the management of a pension fund in accordance with the
prevailing law on pension funds.

Article 8
(1) In extending Credits or Financing based on Syariah Principles, a Commercial
Bank shall have confidence based on thorough analysis on the intention,
capability and ability of a Debtor Customer to repay its debt or the financing
according to the agreed terms.
(2) A Commercial Bank shall formulate and implement a guidance on Credit and
Financing based on Syariah Principles, according to regulations stipulated by
Bank Indonesia.

Article 9
(1) A Commercial Bank conducting custodial activities as referred to in Article 6
letter i shall be responsible for the safe-keeping of the property of the depositor,
and fulfill other obligations according to the concluded contract.
(2) The deposited property shall be entered into bank’s administration and recorded
separately.
(3) In the event that a bank goes into bankruptcy, all properties entrusted in the
custody of the bank shall not be included into the bankruptcy estate, and shall be
returned to the concerned depositors.

Article 10
A Commercial Bank is prohibited from :
a. conducting equity participation, with the exception of those referred to in Article
7 letter b and letter c;
b. conducting business in insurance;
c. undertaking business other than those referred to in Article 6 and Article 7.

Article 11
(1) Bank Indonesia shall stipulate regulations concerning the legal lending limits for
extending Credit or the maximum limit for Financing based on Syariah
Principles, granting guarantees, placement in securities, or other similar
business activities, which a Bank may undertake to a borrower or a group of
related borrowers, including to business entities within the group of the
concerned Bank.

10
(2) The maximum limit as referred to in paragraph (1) may not exceed 30% (thirty
percent) of the capital of a bank as stipulated in Bank Indonesia regulations.
(3) Bank Indonesia shall stipulate regulations concerning the legal lending limits for
extending Credit or the maximum limit for Financing based on Syariah
Principles, granting guarantees, placement in securities, or other similar business
activities, which a Bank may impose on :
a. a shareholder possessing 10% (ten percent) or more of the paid-up capital of
the Bank;
b. a member of the board of commissioners;
c. a member of the board of directors;
d.. a relative of the parties referred to in letter a, letter b, and letter c;
e. other officer of the Bank; and
f. business entities in which interest of parties as referred to in letter a, letter b,
letter c, letter d and letter e are found.
(4) The maximum limit as referred to in paragraph (3) may not exceed 10% (ten
percent) of the capital of a bank as stipulated in Bank Indonesia regulations.
(4A)In extending Credit or Financing based on Syariah Principles, a Bank is
prohibited to exceed the legal lending limits or the maximum limit for Financing
based on Syariah Principles as referred to in paragraph (1), paragraph (2),
paragraph (3), and paragraph (4).
(5) The implementation of the provisions as referred to in paragraph (1) and
paragraph (3) shall be reported in accordance with Bank Indonesia regulations.

Article 12
(1) To support the implementation of a program for improving the living standards
of the common people through development of cooperatives, small and medium
scale of entrepreneurs, the Government and Bank Indonesia may conduct
cooperation with Commercial Banks.
(2) Regulations concerning the cooperation with Commercial Banks as referred to
in paragraph (1) shall be further stipulated in a Government Regulation.

Article 12A
(1) A Commercial Bank may purchase Collateral, whether in whole or in part, either
through auction or outside auction according to wilful submission by the owner
of the Collateral or according to power of attorney by the owner of the collateral

11
to sale outside auction in the event that a Debtor Customer fail to meet its
obligations to the Bank, provided that the purchased Collateral shall be chased
in at the earliest opportunity.
(2) The provisions concerning procedures of the purchasing and chasing of the
Collateral as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be further stipulated in a
Government Regulation.

Part Three
Operations of a Rural Bank
Article 13
The operations of a Rural Bank encompass :
a. mobilizing funds from the public in the form of deposits, comprising time
deposits, savings, and/or other equivalent forms of deposits;
b. extending credit;
c. providing financing and placing fund based on Syariah Principles, according to
regulations stipulated by Bank Indonesia;
d. placing funds in Bank Indonesia Certificates (SBIs), time deposits, certificate of
deposits, and/or savings in other banks.

Article 14
A Rural Bank is prohibited from :
a. accepting deposits in the form of demand deposits and participating in
transactions;
b. conducting business in foreign exchange;
c. conducting equity participation;
d. conducting insurance business;
e. conducting business other than those referred to in Article 13.
Article 15
The provisions as referred to in Article 8 and Article 11 shall also apply to Rural
Banks.

CHAPTER IV
LICENSING, FORM OF LEGAL ENTITY, AND OWNERSHIP
Part One
Licensing

12
Article 16
(1) Any parties conducting activities of collecting funds from the public in the form
of Deposits shall previously obtain an operating license as a Commercial Bank
or a Rural Bank from the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia, except the concerned
activities of collecting funds from the public is stipulated in a separate act.
(2) In order to obtain an operating license as a Commercial Bank or a Rural Bank
as referred to in paragraph (1), the applicant is required to fulfill requirements
concerning :
a. Organization and management structure;
b. Capital;
c. Ownership;
d. Expertise in Banking;
e. Feasibility of the business plan.
(3) The requirements and procedures for Bank licensing as referred to in paragraph
(2) shall be stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

Article 17
Deleted

Article 18
(1) A Branch Office of a Commercial Bank may only be established pursuant to a
license granted by the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia.
(2) An overseas Branch Office, a representative office, and other types of overseas
office of a Commercial Bank may only be established pursuant to a license
granted by the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia.
(3) The establishment of a sub-branch office of a Commercial Bank shall previously
be reported to Bank Indonesia.

(4) The requirements and procedures for the establishment of offices of a
Commercial Bank as referred to in paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and
paragraph (3) shall be stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

13
Article 19
(1) A Branch Office of a Rural Bank may only be established pursuant to a license
granted by the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia.
(2) The requirements and procedures for the establishment of offices of a Rural
Bank as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

Article 20
(1) A Branch Office, a sub-branch office, and a representative office of a Bank
whose head office is domiciled overseas (foreign Bank), may only be established
pursuant to a license granted by the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia.
(2) The establishment of a sub-branch office of a bank referred to in paragraph (1)
shall be reported to Bank Indonesia.
(3) The requirements and procedures for the establishment of offices as referred to in
paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) shall be provided in further detail in a
Government Regulation.

Part Two
Form of Legal Entity
Article 21
(1) A Commercial Bank may be established in one of the following legal forms :
a. Limited Liability Company;
b. Cooperative; or
c. Regional Government Enterprise.
(2) A Rural Bank may be established in one of the following legal forms :
a. Regional Development Enterprise;
b. Cooperative;
c. Limited Liability Company;
d. Other form of legal entity stipulated in a Government Regulation.

(3) The legal form of a representative office and a branch office of a bank whose
head office is domiciled overseas (foreign bank), shall correspond to the legal
forms of the respective head office.

14
Part Three
Ownership
Article 22
(1) A Commercial Bank may only be established by :
a. Indonesian citizens and/or an Indonesian legal entity; or
b. Joint venture between Indonesian citizens and/or an Indonesian legal entity
with foreign citizens and/or a foreign legal entity.
(2) Provisions concerning the establishment requirements which shall be fulfilled by
parties as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

Article 23
A Rural Bank shall only be established and owned by Indonesian citizens, and an
Indonesian legal entity wholly owned by Indonesian citizens, a Regional
Government, or jointly among the three parties.

Article 24
The ownership of a Commercial Bank and a Rural Bank established in the form of a
cooperative shall be based on the provisions of the prevailing cooperative law.

Article 25
The shares of a Commercial Bank and a Rural Bank established in the form of a
limited liability company may only be issued in the form of registered shares.
Article 26
(1) A Commercial Bank may issue shares through a stock exchange.
(2) An Indonesian citizen, a foreign citizen, an Indonesian legal entity, and/or a
foreign legal entity may purchase the shares of a Commercial Bank, directly
and/or through the stock exchange.
(3) The implementation of provision as referred to in paragraph (2) shall be further
stipulated in a Government Regulation.

Article 27

15
Any change of ownership of a Bank shall :
a. meet the requirements stipulated in Article 16 paragraph (3), Article 22, Article
23, Article 24, Article 25 and Article 26; and
b. be reported to Bank Indonesia.

Article 28
(1) Merger, Consolidation, and Acquisition shall be subject to prior approval from
the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia.
(2) Provisions concerning merger, consolidation, and acquisition shall be stipulated
in a Government Regulation.

CHAPTER V
SUPERVISON
Article 29
(1) Bank supervision shall be conducted by Bank Indonesia.
(2) A Bank shall maintain its soundness in accordance with the provisions
concerning the adequacy of capital, quality of assets, quality of management,
liquidity, profitability, solvency, and other aspects related to the operations of a
Bank, and shall be required to conduct operations in accordance with the
prudential principle.
(3) In extending Credits or Financing based on Syariah Principles and conducting
other form of businesses, a Bank shall be required to adhere to methods not
detrimental to the Bank and the interests of Customers entrusting their funds to
the Bank.
(4) In the interest of its Customer, a Bank shall provide information concerning the
risk of possible looses relating to Customer transaction conducted through a
Bank.

(5) Provisions that shall be fulfilled by a Bank as referred to in paragraph (2),
paragraph (3), and paragraph (4) shall be stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

Article 30

16
(1) A Bank shall submit to Bank Indonesia all information and clarifications
concerning its operations according to procedures stipulated by Bank Indonesia.
(2) At the request of Bank Indonesia, a bank shall provide full-cooperation for the
audit of its books and files in its possession, and shall provide any necessary
assistance in the verification of any information, documents, and clarifications
submitted by bank concerned.
(3) Information concerning a Bank obtained pursuant to the provisions referred to in
paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) shall not be made public and shall be
confidential.

Article 31
Bank Indonesia shall conduct examination on Banks, both periodically and at any
time deemed necessary.

Article 31A
Bank Indonesia may appoint a Public Accountant for and on behalf Bank Indonesia
to conduct examination on Banks as referred to in Article 31.

Article 32

Deleted
Article 33
(1) A Bank examination report as referred to in Article 31 and Article 31A shall be
confidential.

(2) Requirements and procedures for examination as referred to in Article 31 and
Article 31A shall be determined by Bank Indonesia.

Article 34
(1) A Bank shall submit its annual balance sheet and profit-loss statement to Bank
Indonesia, together with explanatory notes, as well as other periodical
statements, within the time and in the form determined by Bank Indonesia.

17
(2) The balance sheet and profit-loss statement as referred to in paragraph (1) shall
first be audited by a public accountant.
(3) The fiscal year of a Bank shall be the calendar year.

Article 35
A Bank shall publish its balance sheet and profit-loss statement within the time and in
the form determined by Bank Indonesia.

Article 36
Bank Indonesia may determined exemptions from the provision as referred to in
Article 34 paragraph (2) for Rural Bank.

Article 37
(1) In case of a Bank undergoes difficulties endangering the survival of its business,
Bank Indonesia may take measure so that:
a. The shareholders increase the capital;
b. The shareholders replace the board of commissioners and/or board of
directors;
c. The Bank writes-off bad debts or bad Financing based on Syariah Principles,
and set-off the losses against its capital;
d. The Bank undertakes a Merger or Consolidation with another Bank;
e. The Bank is sold to a party willing to take over all liabilities;
f. The Bank transfers the management of its operations, either in whole or in
part, to another party;
g. The Bank sales a part or a whole of the Bank’s assets and/or liabilities to
another Bank or another party.
(2) If :
a. the measures taken as referred to in paragraph (1) are insufficient to
overcome the difficulties faced by a Bank; and/or
b. according to Bank Indonesia the condition of a Bank endangers the Banking
system,
the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia may revoke the operating license of the Bank
concerned and order the board of directors to immediately call a General
Meeting of the Shareholders for the purpose of winding up the Bank legal entity
and forming a liquidation team.
(3) If the board of directors does not organise the General Meeting of the
Shareholders as referred to in paragraph (2), the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia

18
shall request a court to issue a decree containing the winding up of the legal
entity of the Bank, the appointment of a liquidation team, and an order for the
execution of liquidation in accordance with the prevailing law.

Article 37A
(1) If in the opinion of Bank Indonesia there occurs a Banking problem which are
detrimental to the national economy, at the request of Bank Indonesia, the
Government after having consult to the House of Representatives of the Republic
of Indonesia may establish a temporary special agency for the purpose of Bank
restructuring.
(2) The special agency as referred to in paragraph (1) will undertake a Banking
restructuring program with respect to Banks that are determined and transferred
by Bank Indonesia to the special agency.
(3) In conducting Banking restructuring program, the special agency as referred to
in paragraph (1) is granted powers as referred to in Article 37 paragraph (1) as
well as other powers, namely :
a. to take over and exercise all rights and authorities of shareholders including
the rights and power of a General Meeting of Shareholders;
b. to take over and exercise all rights and powers of the board of directors and
board of commissioners of the Bank;
c. to control, manage, and undertake ownership actions over the assets owned
by the Bank or on which the Bank has the rights held by a third party, whether
inside the country or abroad;
d. to review, cancel, terminate or amend contracts of the Bank with a third party
in which the special agency considers detrimental to the Bank;
e. to carry out the sale or transfer of the assets of the Bank, board of directors,
board of commissioners and certain shareholders, whether inside the country
or abroad, whether directly or through a public auction/offer;
f. to sell or transfer the receivables of the bank and/or hand over the
management of such receivables to another party, without the approval of the
Debtor Customer;
g. to transfer the management of assets and/or management of the Bank to
another party;

h. to make a temporary equity participation in the Bank, whether directly or by
converting the claims of the special agency to be equity participation in the
Bank;
i. to carry out collection of Bank’s fix claims, by issuing of distress warrant
(Surat Paksa);

19
j. to carry out vacating of land and/or building owned by or overwhich the
Bank has the right of possession held by a third party, whether by the special
agency itself or by assistance of the related authorized State’s law
enforcement agencies;
k. to carry out due diligence and investigations to obtain all required
information from and relating to the Bank under the restructuring program
and any other party involved, or is considered to be involved, or aware of any
activity which detrimental to such Bank;
l. to calculate and determine the losses suffered by the Bank under the
restructuring program and to charge such losses to the equity of such Bank,
or if the losses are caused due to the fault or negligence of the board of
directors, board of commissioners and/or shareholders, such losses to be
charged to the related party;
m. to determine the amount of additional paid up capital to be paid by the
shareholders of a Bank under the restructuring program;
n. to carry out any other necessary action to support the enforcement of powers
as stipulated under point a to m.
(4) The Bank restructuring actions carried out by the special agency referred to in
paragraph (3) are valid by virtue of this Law.
(5) At the request of the special agency referred to in paragraph (1), the Bank under
the restructuring program shall provide all information and explanation with
regard to its business including to allow an inspection of accounts and files in its
possession, and shall provide any required assistance in order to obtain
information, documents and explanation obtained by this Bank.
(6) The parties as stipulated in paragraph (3) letter k shall provide all information
and explanation as requested by the special agency.
(7) The special agency referred to in paragraph (1) shall provide the activity report
to the Finance Minister.
(8) If in opinion of the Government, the special agency has accomplished its task,
the Government shall declare the termination of such special agency.
(9) The provisions which is required for the implementation of this Article shall be
further stipulated in a Government Regulation.

Article 37B
(1) Each Bank shall guarantee public funds deposited in the Bank concerned.
(2) In order to protect Deposits of the public in Banks as referred to in paragraph
(1), a Deposit Protection Institution shall be established.

20

(3) The Deposit Protection Institution as referred to in paragraph (2) shall be in the
form of Indonesian legal entity.
(4) The provisions concerning the protection of public funds and the Deposit
Protection Institution shall be further stipulated in a Government Regulation.

CHAPTER VI
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, BOARD OF DIRECTORS, AND EXPATRIATES
Article 38
(1) The appointment of the members of the board of commissioners and the board of
directors of a banks must adhere to the provisions as referred to in Article 16
paragraph (6) and Article 17.
(2) Change in the membership of the board of commissioners or the board of
directors of a banks as referred to in paragraph (1), shall be reported to Bank
Indonesia.

Article 39
(1) In conducting its activities a bank may employ expatriates.
(b) Requirements for the employment of expatriates as referred to in paragraph (1)
shall be stipulated in a Government Regulation.

CHAPTER VII
BANK SECRECY
Article 40
(1) A Bank shall keep information concerning Deposit Customer and their Deposits
confidential, except those stipulated in Article 41, Article 41A, Article 42, Article
43, Article 44, and Article 44A.
(2) The provision as referred to in paragraph (1) shall also apply to Affiliated
Parties.

Article 41

21
(1) In the interest of taxation, the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia is entitled to issue a
written order to a Bank to disclose information and produce written evidence
and documents concerning the financial condition of a particular Deposit
Customer to a taxation officer.
(2) The written order as referred to in paragraph (1) shall state the name of the
taxation officer and the name of the tax payer about whom information is
desired.

Article 41A
(1) In order to settle Bank’s claims which have been transferred to Agency for State
Debt and Auction Affair/State Debt Affair Committee, the Chairmen of Bank
Indonesia may issue permission to the officer of Agency for State Debt and
Auction Affair/State Debt Affair Committee to obtain information from a Bank
concerning Deposits of a Depositor Customer.
(2) The permission as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be issued in writing upon
written request by the chief of Agency for State Debt and Auction Affair/State
Debt Affair Committee.
(3) The request as referred to in paragraph (2) shall state the name and position of
the officer of Agency for State Debt and Auction Affair/State Debt Affair
Committee, the name of the Debtor Customer concerned, and the reasons for
which such information is required.

Article 42
(1) In the interest of court procedures in a criminal case, the Chairmen of Bank
Indonesia may issue permission to the police, a prosecutor, or a judge to obtain
information from a Bank concerning Deposits of a Deposit Customer suspected
of a crime or facing a criminal charge.
(2) The permission as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be issued in writing upon
written request by the chief of Police of the Republic of Indonesia, the Attorney
General, or the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
(3) The request as referred to in paragraph (2) shall state the name and position of a
police officer, a prosecutor, or a judge, the name of the customer suspected of a
crime or facing a criminal charge or parties related to the crime concerned, the
reasons for which such information is required, and the relationship of the
criminal case concerned with the requested information.

22

Article 42A
A Bank shall provide information as referred to in Article 41, Article 41A, and
Article 42.

Article 43
In a civil suit between a bank and its customer, the board of directors of the
concerned bank may disclose information to the court concerning the financial
condition of the customer concerned, and other relevant information.

Article 44
(1) For the purpose of exchange of information between/among banks, the board of
directors of a bank may disclose the financial condition of its customer to other
banks.
(2) Provisions concerning the exchange of information as referred to in paragraph
(1) shall be stipulated further by Bank Indonesia.

Article 44A
(1) Upon a written request, approval, or letter of attorney from a Deposit Customer,
a Bank shall provide information concerning Deposits of a Deposit Customer in
the Bank concerned to any party appointed by the Deposit Customer concerned.
(2) If a Deposit Customer has been deceased, the legal heirs of the Deposit
Customer concerned have a right to obtain information concerning Deposits of
the Deposit Customer concerned.

Article 45
A party disadvantageously affected by the disclosed information referred to in Article
41, Article 42, Article 43, and Article 44, shall be entitled to know the contents of
such information, and to request rectification if errors are found in the disclosed
information.

23

CHAPTER VIII
PENAL PROVISIONS AND
ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
Article 46
(1) Whoever collects funds from the public in the form of Deposits without an
operating license from the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia as referred to in Article
16, shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 5 (five) years and maximum of 15
(fifteen) years and fined to a minimum of Rp10.000.000.000,00 (ten billion
rupiah) and maximum of Rp200.000.000.000,00 (two hundred billion rupiah).
(2) If the activity as referred to in paragraph (1) is committed by a legal entity in the
form of limited liability company, association, foundation, or cooperative, the
charges against such entity shall be imposed on those who ordered such
activities, or those who are responsible for the management of these acts, or
against both.

Article 47
(1) Whoever without a written order or permission from the Chairmen of Bank
Indonesia as referred to in Article 41, Article 41A, and Article 42, knowingly and
willfully forces a Bank or affiliated party to disclose information as referred to in
Article 40 shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 2 (two) years and maximum of 4
(four) years and fined to a minimum of Rp10.000.000.000,00 (ten billion rupiah)
and maximum of Rp200.000.000.000,00 (two hundred billion rupiah).
(2) A member of the board of commissioners or board of directors, Bank employee,
or other Affiliated Party who knowingly and willfully discloses confidential
information as referred to in Article 40, shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 2
(two) years and maximum of 4 (four) years and fined to a minimum of
Rp4.000.000.000,00 (four billion rupiah) and maximum of Rp8.000.000.000,00
(eight billion rupiah).

Article 47A
A member of the board of commissioners, board of directors, or Bank employee, who
knowingly and willfully withholds information that must be disclosed as referred to in
Article 42A and Article 44A, shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 2 (two) years and
maximum of 7 (seven) years and fined to a minimum of Rp4.000.000.000,00 (four
billion rupiah) and maximum of Rp15.000.000.000,00 (fifteen billion rupiah).

24
Article 48
(1) A member of the board of commissioners, board of directors, or Bank employee,
who knowingly and willfully withholds information that must be disclosed as
referred to in Article 30 paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) and Article 34
paragraph (1) and paragraph (2), shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 2 (two)
years and maximum of 10 (ten) years and fined to a minimum of
Rp5.000.000.000,00 (five billion rupiah) and maximum of Rp100.000.000.000,00
(one hundred billion rupiah).
(2) A member of the board of commissioners, board of directors, or Bank employee,
who through negligence fails to provide information that must be disclosed as
referred to in Article 30 paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) and Article 34
paragraph (1) and paragraph (2), shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 1 (one)
years and maximum of 2 (two) years and/or fined to a minimum of
Rp1.000.000.000,00 (one billion rupiah) and maximum of Rp2.000.000.000,00
(two billion rupiah).

Article 49
(1) A member of the board of commissioners, board of directors, or Bank employee,
who knowingly and wilfully :
a. creates or causes to exist falsified records in the books or in a report, in a
document or report on business operation, a transaction report or an account
of a Bank;
b. eliminates or fails to enter or cause not to be recorded in the books or in a
report, or in a document or report on business operation, a transaction report
or an account of a Bank;
c. changes, obscures, conceals, erases, or eliminates the existence of a record in
the books or in a report, in a document or report on business operations, a
transaction report or an account of a Bank, or knowingly and willfully
changes, obscures, conceals, erases, or destroys such accounting records;
shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 5 (five) years and maximum of 15 (fifteen)
years and fined to a minimum of Rp10.000.000.000,00 (ten billion rupiah) and
maximum of Rp200.000.000.000,00 (two hundred billion rupiah).
(2) A member of the board of commissioners, board of directors, or Bank employee,
who knowingly and wilfully :
a. requests or accepts, permits or approves to accept a remuneration,
commission, gratuity, service, money or valuables for personal gain or for the
benefit of his family in return of his efforts to obtain in favor of another
person a down payment, Bank guarantee, or Credit facility from a Bank, or as
part of the purchase or discounting by a Bank in bill of exchange (draft),
promissory notes, cheques, and commercial paper, or other proof of liability,

25
or in return of providing approval for another person to draw funds in excess
of his Credit ceiling at the Bank;
b. does not take the necessary measures to assure the adherence of the Bank to
the provisions of this Act and the provisions in other prevailing laws and
regulations applicable to Banks;
shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 3 (three) years and maximum of 8 (eight)
years and fined to a minimum of Rp5.000.000.000,00 (five billion rupiah) and
maximum of Rp100.000.000.000,00 (one hundred billion rupiah).

Article 50
Any Affiliated Party who knowingly and willfully does not take the necessary
measures to assure the adherence of a Bank to the provisions of this Act and the
provisions in other prevailing laws and regulations applicable to Banks shall be
imprisoned to a minimum of 3 (three) years and maximum of 8 (eight) years and fined
to a minimum of Rp5.000.000.000,00 (five billion rupiah) and maximum of
Rp100.000.000.000,00 (one hundred billion rupiah).

Article 50A
Any shareholder who knowingly and willfully instructs the board of commissioners,
board of directors, or Bank employee to conduct or not to conduct any action
resulting that the Bank does not take the necessary measures to assure the adherence
of the Bank to the provisions of this Act and the provisions in other prevailing laws
and regulations applicable to Banks, shall be imprisoned to a minimum of 7 (seven)
years and maximum of 15 (fifteen) years and fined to a minimum of
Rp10.000.000.000,00 (ten billion rupiah) and maximum of Rp200.000.000.000,00
(two hundred billion rupiah).

Article 51
(1) The offenses as referred to in Article 46, Article 47, Article 47A, Article 48
paragraph (1), Article 49, Article 50, and Article 50A are felonies.
(2) The offenses as referred to in Article 48 paragraph (1) are misdemeanors.

Article 52

26
(1) Without prejudice to the penal provisions as referred to in Article 47, Article
47A, Article 48, Article 49, and Article 50A, Bank Indonesia may impose
administrative sanctions on a Bank which fails to meet obligations as stipulated
in this Act, or the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia may revoke the operating license
of the Bank concerned.
(2) The administrative sanctions as referred to in paragraph (1), i.e. :
a. Imposition of a fine;
b. Dispatch of written warnings;
c. Degradation of Bank’s soundness rating;
d. Prohibition from taking part in clearing activities;
e. Freezing of certain business activities of a Bank, both for certain Branch
Offices and for a Bank as a whole;
f. Dismissing the Bank management and then appointing a temporary substitute
of the management until the General Meeting of Shareholders or the Meeting
of Cooperative Members appoints the permanent substitute with the approval
of Bank Indonesia;
g. Inclusion of members of management, Bank employees, shareholders in a list
of disreputable (disgraceful) persons in Banking sector.
(3) Further implementation of administrative sanctions shall be determined by Bank
Indonesia.

Article 53
Without prejudice to the penal provisions as referred to in Article 50, Bank Indonesia
may impose administrative sanctions on an affiliated party which fail to meet
obligations as stipulated in this Act, or submit recommendations to the competence
agency to revoke the concerned license.

CHAPTER IX
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Article 54

(1) With this Act coming into force :
a. Government Regulation in substitution of Act No.21 of 1960 concerning Bank
Pembangunan Indonesia (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia No.65 of
1960, Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia No.1996);

27
b. Act No.13 of 1962 concerning Principal Provisions for Bank Pembangunan
Daerah (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia No.59 of 1962,
Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia No.2490);
c. Act No.17 of 1968 concerning Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (State Gazette of
the Republic of Indonesia No.70 of 1968, Supplement to the State Gazette of
the Republic of Indonesia No.2870);
d. Act No.18 of 1968 concerning Bank Dagang Negara (State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.71 of 1968, Supplement to the State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.2871);
e. Act No.19 of 1968 concerning Bank Bumi Daya (State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.72 of 1968, Supplement to the State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.2872);
f. Act No.20 of 1968 concerning Bank Tabungan Negara (State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.73 of 1968, Supplement to the State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.2873);
g. Act No.21 of 1968 concerning Bank Rakyat Indonesia (State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.74 of 1968, Supplement to the State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.2874);
h. Act No.22 of 1968 concerning Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (State Gazette of
the Republic of Indonesia No.75 of 1968, Supplement to the State Gazette of
the Republic of Indonesia No.2875);
shall remain in force for a maximum period of 1 (one) year from the date this Act
coming into force.
(2) Within the period referred to in paragraph (1), banks established pursuant to the
Act as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be required to fulfill the provisions of
this Act.
(3) In the event that a bank as referred to in paragraph (2) has adjusted of this Act
prior to the period mentioned in paragraph (1), the concerned Act is referred to in
paragraph (1) shall no longer be valid.

Article 55
A Bank, in possession of an operating license at the time of this Act coming into force,
is declared to have obtained an operating license pursuant to this Act.

Article 56
A bank shall adhere to the provisions concerning the legal lending limit as referred to
in Article 11 paragraph (2) and paragraph (4) within a maximum period of 5 (five)
years from the date of this Act coming into force.

28

Article 57
A Non-Bank Financial Institution, in possession of a license from the Minister at the
date of this Act coming into force, may transform its business into that of a bank
pursuant to the provisions of this Act within a maximum period of 1 (one) year from
the date of this Act coming into force.

Article 58
A Bank Desa, Lumbung Desa, Bank Pasar, Bank Pegawai, Lumbung Pitih Nagari
(LPN), Lembaga Perkreditan Desa (LPD), Badan Kredit Desa (BKD), Badan Kredit
Kecamatan (BKK), Kredit Usaha Rakyat Kecil (KURK), Lembaga Perkreditan
Kecamatan (LPK), Bank Karya Produksi Desa (BKPD), and/or other similar
institution shall be granted the status of Rural Bank pursuant to this Act after the
requirements and procedures to be stipulated in a Government Regulation are
fulfilled.
Article 59
Laws and regulations issued prior to the date of this Act coming into force, provided
that they are not contradictory to this Act, are declared to remain in force until
revoked, replaced, or renewed.

Article 59A
A special agency conducting Banking restructuring task that has been existing before
this Act coming into force, is declared to be continually exist.

CHAPTER X
CONCLUDING PROVISIONS
Article 60
With the coming into force of this Act :
a. State Gazette No.357 of 1929 dated 14 September of 1929 concerning provisions
on Badan Kredit Desa outside the territories of municipalities in Java and Madura;
b. Act No.12 of 1962 concerning Private Development Bank (State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.58 of 1962, Supplement to the State Gazette of the
Republic of Indonesia No.2489);

29
c. Act No.14 of 1967 concerning Banking Principles (State Gazette of the Republic
of Indonesia No.34 of 1967, Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of
Indonesia No.2842);
are declared no longer valid.
Article 61
This Act shall come into force on the date of its enactment.
Article II
(1) With the coming into force of this Act, Provisions concerning Credit Business
Conducting by Villages in Kadipaten Paku Alaman Territory (Rijksblaad of
Paku Alaman Territory Year 1937 Number 9), is declared no longer valid.
(2) This Act shall come into force on the date of its enactment.
For the public to be informed, it is instructed to promulgate this Act in the State
Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia.
1. Act No. 7 of 1992
Enacted in Jakarta
on 25 March 1992
THE PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
signed
SOEHARTO
Promulgated in Jakarta
on 25 March 1992
STATE MINISTER OF STATE SECRETARY
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Signed
MOERDIONO

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA OF 1992 NUMBER 31
2. Act No. 10 of 1998
Enacted in Jakarta
on 10 November 1998
THE PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Signed
BACHARUDDIN JUSUF HABIBIE

30
Enacted in Jakarta
on 10 November 1998
STATE MINISTER OF STATE SECRETARY
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Signed
AKBAR TANDJUNG

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA OF 1998 NUMBER 182

ELUCIDATIONS
TO
THE ACT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 7 OF 1992
CONCERNING
BANKING
AS AMENDED BY
ACT OF THE REPULIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 10 OF 1998

GENERAL
The national development, which has been carried out, constitutes a continuous
effort in order to bring about justice and prosperity based on the Pancasila and the
1945 Constitution. To achieve this objective, the implementation of development shall
give a greater attention to the harmony, congruity, and balance of the various
elements of development, including in the economic and financial sectors.
The current national economic development has demonstrated a greater
integration with the regional and international economy, which could bring about the
benefits as well as unexpected impact, to the domestic economy. Meanwhile, national
economic has developed rapidly with the associated ever widening challenges. Based
on the above consideration, it is considered necessary to take various adjustments in
the economic sector including banking. The adjustments taken are expected to
improve and strengthen national economy.
In view of the strategic role of banking in the economy both as an intermediary
institution and supporting agent for the payment system plays a very decisive factor
in the adjustment process. The improvement of the national banking system is needed
not only to improve individual bank soundness, but also to improve the soundness of
the banking system as a whole. The soundness of national banking system is the
responsibility of all parties concerned namely the Government, the banks themselves,
and the bank’s customers. The existence of common responsibility could help
maintain the national banking soundness, so that the bank could play a maximum role
in the national economy.
In order for the banking supervision to work effectively, the authority and the
responsibility regarding to bank’s license, which formerly under the authority of the
Finance Minister shall be transferred to the Chairmen of Bank Indonesia. So that
Bank Indonesia has a sole authority and responsibility relating to licensing,
supervising, and imposing sanction on a bank which fails to adhere to the prevailing
banking regulations. Therefore, Bank Indonesia has the authority and responsibility
to evaluate and to decide the feasibility for the establishment of a Bank and/or
opening Bank offices.

2
Prudential principles must be adhered consistently , meanwhile the regulations
on bank activities have to be improved especially those relating to the extension of
funds, including the increasing role of an Analysis on the Environmental Impact
(“AMDAL”) for big scale company or high risk company.
The role of national Banking needs to be improved in line with its functions in
mobilizing and extending public fund with greater attention toward financing
domestic economic sector activities, the priority shall be given to the cooperative,
small and medium scale entrepreneurs, and all standing of community without
discrimination so that to strengthen the national economic structure. Banks also have
to give greater attention to improve the economic performance of the region/area
where the bank office operated.
Meanwhile, the role of a Bank which conduct its operation based on Syariah
Principle needs to be increased in order to meet the people’s aspiration and needs.
This Act provides broader opportunity for the public to establish a Bank which
conduct its operation based on Syariah Principle, including the opportunity for
Commercial Bank to establish a branch office which conduct activities solely based
on Syariah Principle.
In order to increase social control toward Banking institution, the provision of
Bank Secrecy, which previously considered as too rigid, shall be reviewed. Bank
Secrecy constitutes as one of the elements which a Bank must have as a public trust
institution managing the public funds. However, not the entire aspects of banking
activities administered by a Bank constitute a Bank Secrecy.
In order to support the national banking performance, the supporting agencies
are needed, either the one with temporary nature or the one with more permanent
nature such as Deposit Protection Institution. To strengthen the banking institution,
as a public trusts institution, the regulation concerning responsibility of shareholder
who knowingly and willfully has caused the Bank not to comply with regulations are
needed with the imposition of more stringent penal sanctions.
In line with the above development, with the existence of the Government
commitments in the various international forum such as The World Trade
Organization (WTO), Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), and Association
of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), various adjustments are required in domestic
banking regulations including the opening up of market access and nondiscrimination treatment toward foreign service suppliers. Liberalization in the
Banking sector is conducted in such a way so as to improve national Banking
performance as well. In that regard, it is necessary to provide a greater opportunity
to Foreign Service suppliers to participate in the ownership of domestic Bank through
the “partnership” with domestic investor.
In light of this, it is necessary to take into account the rules and regulation
relating to this Act, such as Act Number 5 of 1962 concerning Regional Government
Enterprise, Act Number 25 of 1992 concerning Cooperative, Act Number 7 of 1994
concerning Ratification on Agreement Establishing World Trade Organization, Act
Number 1 of 1995 concerning Limited Liability Company, Act Number 8 of 1985
concerning Stock Exchange, Act Number 9 of 1995 concerning Small Scale
Enterprise, and Act Number 4 of 1996 concerning The Right of Land Mortgage
including Goods attached to the Land.

3

ARTICLE BY ARTICLE

Article 1
Item 1 to item 28
Self explanatory.

Article 2
The term “Economic democracy” is economic democracy based on the Pancasila
and the 1945 Constitution.

Article 3
Self explanatory.

Article 4
Self explanatory.

Article 5
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
The expression “operate exclusively in particular activity” covers among
others conducting long term finance, financing development of cooperatives,
developing entrepreneurs from economically weak groups/small-scale
entrepreneurs, developing non oil-gas exports, and developing housing.

Article 6
A Commercial Bank may exercise some or all of the business activities stipulated
in letter a to letter n. A Bank may choose a type of business activity appropriate
to the expertise and the business that is wishes to develop. Thereby public

4
demand for various Banking services may be accommodated by Banking
business without neglecting the principles of soundness and efficiency.
Letter a
Self explanatory.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
A Bank may be issue both short term and long term debt instruments. Short
term debt instruments are as stipulated in Article 100 to Article 229 k of the
Commercial Code known as Money Market Securities on the money market
and consist of promissory notes, commercial paper, and other types of
Securities which may be developed in the future. Long term debt instruments
may take the forms of bonds or Credit Securities.
Letter d
The term “operation” as referred to in this letter covers the activities of
purchasing, selling or guaranteeing the Securities, mentioned in the
elucidation of letter c, and Securities issued by the government and/or Bank
Indonesia.
Item 1
Self explanatory.
Item 2
Self explanatory.
Item 3
Self explanatory.
Item 4
Self explanatory.
Item 5
Self explanatory.
Item 6
Self explanatory.
Item 7
This provision is proposed to accommodate the existence of Securities
other than those mentioned in item 1 to item 6.

5

Letter e
Self explanatory.
Letter f
Self explanatory.
Letter g
This activity includes collection and clearing.
Letter h
The expression “providing space” in this provision is an activity of a Bank
merely to rent safety boxes, without any necessity for the Bank to be
informed of any changes or the contents of the safety boxes.
Letter i
In conducting Custodial activities, a Bank accepts the safe-keeping of
deposited property and records such property separately from the assets of
the Bank. Changes in the accounting of such property shall be performed by
the Bank at the request of the Depositors.
Letter j
In this activity, a Commercial Bank acts as intermediary between a
Customer in need of funds and a Customer possessing funds.
Letter k
Deleted
Letter l
Factoring is the management of accounts receivable or short term payment
claims in respect of both domestic and foreign commercial transactions
conducted by means of the take over or purchase of such accounts
receivable. Credit card operations are business in which Credit or finance is
extended in respect of the purchase of goods or services by means of a card.
In technical terms, the Credit card serves as an instrument for the transfer of
account in settling the payment of transaction.
Letter m
A Commercial Bank conducting conventional businesses may conduct its
activities based on Syariah Principles through :
a. Establishment of new Branch Office or office under Branch Office; or
b. Converting the existing Branch Office or office under Branch Office
which is previously conducting conventional Banking businesses to
become an office which is conducting businesses based on Syariah
Principles. In order to prepare the convertion of a Commercial Bank
office to become an office based on Syariah Principles, Branch Office or

6
office under Branch Office may initially form a separate unit which
conduct its businesses based on Syariah Principles within the office
concerned.
Commercial Bank conducting businesses based on Syariah Principles shall
not conduct conventional businesses.
Salient features of Bank Indonesia provision includes among others :
a. Business activities and bank’s products based on Syariah Principles;
b. The formation and tasks of Syariah Supervisory Council;
c. The requirements for the establishment of Branch Office conducting
conventional Banking businesses to conduct business activities based on
Syariah Principles.
Letter n
Other business commonly conducted by a Bank in this respect is business
other than the activities mentioned under letter a to m, and not contravention
of the prevailing law, for example, providing bank guarantees, acting as a
fiscal agent, interest rate swap, assisting consumer in their administration,
etc.

Article 7
Letter a
Self explanatory.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
Salient features of Bank Indonesia provision included among others :
a. Temporary equity participation by a Bank through the convertion of bad
debts or bad Financing based on Syariah Principles in the company
concerned;
b. The requirements for bad debts or bad Financings based on Syariah
Principles which may be converted to equity participation;
c. Temporary equity participation concerned shall be withdrawn if :
i) exceeding the maximum of 5 (five) years period; or
ii) the company has yielded profits;
d. The temporary equity concerned shall be written-off from Bank’s balance
sheet, should within 5 (five) years period, Bank has not been succeeded to
withdrawn its participation;
e. Reporting requirement to Bank Indonesia concerning the temporary
equity participation by a Bank.
Letter d
Self explanatory.

7

Article 8
Paragraph (1)
Credit or Financing based on Syariah Principles extended by the Bank posed
a risk, so in its implementation Bank shall pay due observance on sound
Credits principles and sound Financing based on Syariah Principles. In
order to reduce such risk, guarantee of Credit in the sense of confidence in
the capability and capacity of the Debtor to repay his debt according to the
agreed terms needs to be taken into account by the Bank.
To obtain such confidence, before extending Credit, the Bank must
undertake an accurate appraisal of the character, capability, capital,
Collateral, and condition of the economy. Because Collateral is one of the
aspects of guarantee for extending Credit, if confidence has been obtained
from the other aspect in respect of the ability of the Debtor to repay his debt,
Collateral may only take the form of the goods, project, or accounts
receivable financed by the Credit concerned. Land held by traditional
ownership, i.e. land whose proof of ownership comprises traditional titles
such as “girik”, “petuk”, and so on, may be used as Collateral. Banks are
not required to ask for Collateral in the form of property not directly related
to the financed property, activity project, commonly known as
“supplementary Collateral”.
In addition, in the extension of Credit or Financing based on Syariah
Principles Bank shall take into account the result of Analysis Concerning
the Environtmental Impact (AMDAL) for big scale companies and/or high
risk so that the project being financed protects the sustainability of the
environment.
Paragraph (2)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions included among others :
a. The extension of Credits or Financing according to Syariah Principles
shall be in written agreements;
b. Bank shall have confidence in the capability and capacity Debtor
Customer which, among others, obtained by an accurate appraisal of the
character, capability, capital, Collateral, and business prospect of
Debtor Customer;
c. The requirements of a Bank to formulate and implement the procedures
for the extension of Credit and Financing based on Syariah Principles.
d. The requirement of a Bank to provide clear information concerning
procedures and requirements of Credit or Financing based on Syariah
Principles;
e. Prohibition for a Bank to extent Credit or Financing based on Syariah
Principles based on discriminatory conditions toward Debtor Customer
and/or Affiliated parties;
f. Dispute settlement.

8
Article 9
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 10
Letter a
Self explanatory.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
Other business activities prohibited in this letter c cover among others acting
as underwriter.

Article 11
Credit or Financing based on Syariah Principles extended by a Bank bears the
risk of failure or loss on its repayment, which may affect the soundness of the
Bank. Considering that the source of the Credit or financing according Syariah
Principles is funds from the public, the risk faced by the Bank may also affect the
security of funds from the public. Therefore in order to maintain its soundness
and to improve its resilience, the Bank is required to diversify the risk by
managing Credit or Financing based on Syariah Principle distribution,
providing guarantees and other facilities in such manner so as to avoid the
concentration of its Credit or Financing according Syariah Principle portfolio,
provisions of guarantee, and other similar facilities on certain Debtor or group
of Debtors.
Paragraph (1)
A group is a number of person or legal entities related one to another by
virtue of ownership, management, and/or financial relations.

9
Paragraph (2)
Bank Indonesia may stipulate a maximum limit which is less than 30%
(thirty percent) of the capital of a Commercial Bank. The definition of
capital of the Bank shall be determined by Bank Indonesia, based on the
definition used in Bank rating. The maximum limit shall be applicable to
each borrower, including companies within the same group.
Paragraph (3)
Letter a
Self explanatory.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
Self explanatory.
Letter d
The term “relative” in this provision means family relationship to the
second degree by both vertical and horizontal lines of descent, including
in-laws.
Letter e
Self explanatory.
Letter f
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (4)
Bank Indonesia may stipulate a maximum limit which is less than 10%
(ten percent) of the capital of a Commercial Bank. The definition of the
capital of the Bank shall be determined by Bank Indonesia based on the
definition used in Bank rating.
Paragraph (4A)
This prohibition is intended that in the extension of Credit or Financing
based on Syariah Principles, Bank shall implement sound Credit
principles. Bank is declared as violation of this paragraph if at the time
of its extension, Credit balance or financing concerned exceeding the
maximum limit as stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

10
Paragraph (5)
Self explanatory.
Article 12
Paragraph (1)
As a realisation of the principle, function and objective of Banking, the
implementation of which shall be carried out in line with national
development needs, as long as it is not contrary to the monetary
program of Bank Indonesia.
Paragraph (2)
Salient features of the Government Regulations will include among
others :
a. The requirements of Commercial Bank to extent Credit or Financing
based on Syariah Principles to cooperatives, small and medium scale
entrepreneurs with concessionaire interest or concessionaire
Financing based on Syariah Principles;
b. The Program of the improvement of the living standard of common
people in the forms of provision of Credits with subidized interest or
subsidized Financing based on Syariah Principles;
c. The interest subsidy or profit sharing shall be born by the State’s
budget.

Article 12A
Paragraph (1)
A possibility of a Bank to purchase Collateral through public auction is
meant to support a Bank in order to speed up the process of settlement
of claims by Customer Debtor. In case a Bank acts as purchaser of
Collateral, the Bank status is of equal with those other non-bank’s
purchasers.
A possibility of a Bank to purchase Collateral outside public auction is
meant to speed up the settlement of Creditor Customer’s liabilities.
Bank is prohibited to possess ownership title of the Collateral
purchased and shall without delay resale the Collateral, so the proceed
of which can be utilised by the Bank immediately.

Paragraph (2)

11

The salient features of the Government Regulation include among others
:
a. The Collateral purchased by a Bank shall be the Collateral of Credit
categorised as loss for certain period of time;
b. The purchased Collateral shall be executed at the latest of one year
period;
c. Within one year period, a Bank may postpone its obligations relating
to the transfer of ownership of Collateral concerned in accordance
with the prevailing laws and regulations.
Article 13
Letter a
The expression “other equivalent forms of deposit” is mentioned to
accommodated the possibilities of other forms of deposit for a Rural Bank to
mobilize from the public funds equivalent to Time Deposits and savings, but
not in the forms of Demand Deposits or other Deposits which may be
withdrawn by cheque.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
A Rural Bank conducting businesses based on Syariah Principles is
prohibited from conducting conventional activities.
A Rural Bank
conducting conventional activities is prohibited from conducting activities
based on Syariah Principles.
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions include among others :
a. Business activities and Bank’s product based on Syariah Principles;
b. The formation and tasks of Syariah Supervisory Council.
Letter d
Self explanatory.

Article 14
This prohibition is intended to adapt the activities of a Rural Bank, the primary
objective of which is to serve small-scale businesses and the people in rural
areas. Thus the type of services which may be rendered by a Rural Bank shall be
adjusted to this purpose.
Letter a
Self explanatory.

12
Letter b
The prohibition stipulated in this letter does not cover the activities as a
money changer. Prior to exercising its function as a money changer, a Rural
Bank is required to adhere to Bank Indonesia regulations.
Letter c
Self explanatory.
Letter d
Self explanatory.
Letter e
Self explanatory.

Article 15
Self explanatory.

Article 16
Paragraph (1)
The collection of funds from the public by any party is in principle an
activity that must be supervised, since such activity involves the interest of
public whose funds are deposited at the party concerned. In this regard, this
paragraph emphasizes that the activity of collecting funds in the form of
Deposits may only be undertaken by a party after having obtained an
operating license.
Nevertheless, other types of entities exist in society, which also collect funds
from the public in the form of Deposits or types of Deposits, for example, as
performed by the post office, pension funds, or by insurance companies. The
activities of these entities do not fall within the scope of Banking according
to the provisions of this paragraph. Regulations for implementation
concerning the collecting of funds from the public by such entities shall be
provided in a separate act.
Paragraph (2)
In order to issue an operating license as a Commercial Bank and a Rural
Bank, Bank Indonesia shall take into account the requirements stated in this
Article as well as the degree of healthy competition among Banks, the degree
of Bank density within certain area, and the distribution of national
economic development.

13
Letter a
Expatriates are allowed to take part in Commercial Bank management
in accordance with the prevailing laws and regulations.
Letter b
Self explanatory
Letter c
The ownership requirements included the amount and composition of
foreign ownership allowed in the Commercial Bank.
Letter d
Self explanatory
Letter e
Self explanatory
Paragraph (3)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among
others :
a. The requirements to become management of the Bank e.g. relating to
expertise in the Banking sector and good reputation;
b. Prohibition of the existence of family relationship among Bank’s
management;
c. Minimum subscribed capital for the establishment of Commercial Bank
and Rural Bank;
d. The maximum ownership and management;
e. Feasibility of business plan;
f. Time period for the issuance of license for the establishment of a Bank.

Article 17
Deleted.

Article 18
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

14

Paragraph (3)
The term sub-branch office refers to among others auxilliary and other
offices under branch office. In order to provide Banking services, it is also
possible for a Bank to establish other types of office under a Branch Office,
such as payment point, mobile cash office, and automated teller machine
(ATM).
A plan for the establishment of such offices shall be prior reported to Bank
Indonesia.
Paragraph (4)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among
others :
a. The requirements of Bank soundness rating;
b. The degree of healthy competition among Banks;
c. The degree of Bank density within certain area;
d. The distribution of national economic development;
e. Time period for the issuance of a license for the establishment of an office
at the latest of 60 (sixty) days after all documents have been completely
received;
f. Time period and the reasons of a rejection;
g. Time period for the reporting of the establishment of sub-branch offices.

Article 19
Paragraph (1)
In order to issue a license for the establishment of a Brach Office of a Rural
Bank, Bank Indonesia shall take into account the requirements stated in this
paragraph as well as the degree of healthy competition among Banks, the
degree of Bank density within certain area, and the distribution of national
economic development.
The establishment of a sub-branch office of a Rural Bank does not require a
license. A plan for the establishment of such office shall be prior reported to
Bank Indonesia.
Paragraph (2)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among others
:
a. The requirements of Rural Bank soundness rating;
b. The degree of healthy competition among Rural Banks;

15
c. The degree of Rural Bank office density within certain area;
d. The distribution of national economic development;
e. Time period for the issuance of a license for the establishment of an office
at the latest of 30 (thirty) days after all documents of request have been
completely received;
f. Time period and the reasons of a rejection.

Article 20
Paragraph (1)
The term a Bank whose head office is domiciled overseas (foreign Bank)
refers to a Bank established based on the foreign law and having its head
office overseas. Therefore, the Bank concerned is subject to the law in the
place where the Bank is established.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 21
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Letter a
Self explanatory.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
Self explanatory.
Letter d

16
This provision provides a possibility for the operation of a Banking
institution in a smaller scale than a Rural Bank, such as a bank desa, a
badan kredit desa and other institution as referred to in Article 58.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 22
Paragraph (1)
Letter a
Indonesian legal entity covers among others the state of the Republic of
Indonesia, state-owned enterprise, regional government enterprise,
cooperative, and private enterprise.
Letter b
In the event that one of the parties willing to establish a Commercial
Bank is a foreign legal entity, the foreign legal entity concerned shall be
required to obtain a recommendation from the monetary authority of its
country of origin. Such a recommendation at least includes information
that the foreign legal entity concerned has a good reputation and never
conducted any disgraceful act in Banking.
Paragraph (2)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among others
:
a. The ownership of shares;
b. The required document;
c. Financial condition of the applicants.

Article 23
If a Rural Bank is owned by an Indonesian legal entity, all owners of such
Indonesian legal entity shall be Indonesian citizens.

Article 24
Self explanatory.

17
Article 25
Bank shares in the form of registered shares is provided to facilitate disclosure of
changes in the share ownership of a Bank.

Article 26
Paragraph (1)
The provisions in this paragraph are meant to strengthen the structure of
capital, distribution of ownership, and to improve the performance of the
Bank concerned.
Emission of shares may be conducted through the stock exchange in
Indonesia and/or abroad.
Paragraph (2)
The provisions in this paragraph are meant to give a broader opportunity to
any parties, both Indonesian or foreigner, to participate in the ownership of
Commercial Banks.
Paragraph (3)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among others
:
a. The requirements of ownership, including financial condition of the
prospective Bank owner;
b. The required documents.

Article 27
Letter a
Self explanatory.
Letter b
A plan for a direct transfer of Bank’s ownership shall be reported to Bank
Indonesia. This reporting is aimed to ensure that the ownership is transferred
to parties meet requirements as a Bank owner.
The transfer of the bank shares ownership conducted through stock
exchange shall be reported to Bank Indonesia if the ownership of a party has
reached a certain amount which capable of influencing the Bank
management in accordance with provisions stipulated by Bank Indonesia.

18
Article 28
Paragraph (1)
In conducting Merger, Consolidation, and Acquisition, the parties shall
prevent a concentration of economic power within one group in the form of a
monopoly detrimental to the public interest. A Merger, Consolidation, and
Acquisition shall not harm the interest of the Customers.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

Article 29
Paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and paragraph (3)
The term supervision in paragraph (1) means efforts carried out by
stipulating regulations concerning institution, ownership, management,
business activities, reporting, and other aspects related to operational
activities of a Bank.
The term supervision in paragraph (1) comprises off-site supervision
especially in the form of early warning system through reviewing, analyzing,
and evaluating Bank’s reports, and on-site supervision in the form of
examination followed by remedial measures.
In line with that, Bank Indonesia shall be granted complete powers,
responsibilities, and liabilities to carry out Bank supervision by taking
measures both preventive and repressive.
On the other side, a Bank shall formulated and implement internal
supervision system in order to ensure that the decision making process in the
Bank management is conducted in accordance with prudential principles.
Considering that a Bank especially operates with funds from the public
deposited on the Banks based on trust, each Bank shall be required to
maintain its soundness and public trust.
Paragraph (4)
The provision of information concerning the risk of possible losses for
Customer is aimed to give more access for the Customer to obtain
information regarding business activities and conditions of a Bank and at
the same time to guarantee the transparency in Banking sector.
The information may include the condition of a bank, including capital
adequacy and assets quality. If the information concerned has been provided,
the Bank is considered to comply with this provision. The information
concerned shall be provided by a Bank in the event that the Bank acts as an

19
intermediary in the placement of fund of a Customer or purchases/sells
securities on behalf of or at the request of a Customer.
Paragraph (5)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among
others :
a. Scope of Bank supervision;
b. Criteria of Banking soundness assessment;
c. Prudential principles in Bank management;
d. Guidance for providing information to Customers.

Article 30
Paragraph (1) and paragraph (2)
The requirements for reporting and clarifying the operations of a Bank to
Bank Indonesia is necessary considering that such information is utilized to
monitor the condition of the Bank and thereby protects funds from the public
and safeguards the existence of Banking institutions.
It is only possible to enhance confidence in the Banking system if Banks are
consistently operated in a sound condition. For this reason, Bank Indonesia is
authorized to audit the books and files of a Bank in order to verify the reports
submitted by the Bank.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 31
In principle the examination carried out by Bank Indonesia is conducted
periodically at least once a year for each Bank. In addition, an examination may
be conducted any time as deemed necessary for the clarification of indirect
supervision result, and if there is any indication that a Bank has violated the
sound Banking practice.
In connection with State funds managed by a Bank, the Badan Pemeriksa
Keuangan may conduct an examination on a Bank concerned.

20
Article 31A
The Bank examination conducted by a Public Accountant is a field examination
which constitutes a delegation of power from Bank Indonesia as the Bank
supervisory authority.

Article 32
Deleted

Article 33
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
The salient features of Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among others
:
a. Types, procedures, and scope of examination;
b. Period of time and the reporting of the result of examination;
c. Follow-up/actions to the result of examination.

Article 34
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (4)
Self explanatory.

21

Article 35
Self explanatory.

Article 36
This exemption may be granted having taken into account the ability of the Rural
Bank concerned.

Article 37
Paragraph (1)
The condition of a Bank is considered as facing difficulties endangering the
survival of its business if according to Bank Indonesia’s assessment the
condition of the Bank’s business is deteriorating, inter alia, indicated by
decreasing of its capital, quality of assets, liquidity and profitability as well
as the Bank has not been managed in compliance with prudential and sound
Banking principles.
This Article states the steps which are necessary to be imposed on Bank
facing difficulties endangering the survival of its business, in order to avoid
the revocation of its operating license and/or liquidation as referred to in
paragraph (2).
The steps mentioned are carried out in the framework of safeguarding the
Bank as a public trust institution.
The third parties as mentioned in this paragraph are the parties outside the
bank concerned, whether Bank, other business entity, or individual that meet
the requirements.
Paragraph (2)
Criteria of endangering the banking system is if the degree of difficulties is
such that the Bank could not meet its liabilities to other Banks which
ultimately create the contagious effects to other Banks.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 37A
Paragraph (1) and paragraph (2)

22
The Banking difficulties which is endangering the national economy is a
condition of the Banking system that according to Bank Indonesia’s
assessment there is a crisis in public trust to Banking which influences the
welfare of common people. To cope with this problem, it is required a direct
role of the Government through policies and measures affecting the State’s
Budget.
Considering the above matters, in the establishment of a special agency as
referred to in paragraph (1), the Government need a consultation with the
House of Representatives of the Republic of Indonesia. The consultation is
carried out with the Commission in charge of Finance and Banking to
obtain its approval.
The special agency is established by a Presidential Decree and shall be
responsible to the Minister of Finance.
The special agency as referred to in this paragraph shall be established on
a temporary basis until the completion of its duties which are :
a. Restructuring Banks which are transferred by Bank Indonesia;
b. Settlement of the Bank’s assets, whether physical assets or the receivables
from the debtor through an Asset Management Unit;
c. Seeking the repayment of State funds which have been extended to Banks.
Paragraph (3)
Letter a
By taking over all rights and authorities of the shareholders, including
the rights and authorities of General Meeting of Shareholders, the
special agency may carry out the management of the Bank under
restructuring program; furthermore all rights and authorities of the
shareholders including the General Meeting of Shareholders of the
Bank under restructuring program shifted to the special agency.
Letter b
Self explanatory.
Letter c
Based on this provision, the special agency may control, manage, and
conduct any ownership actions as the owner.
Letter d
In case of the reviewing, cancellation, termination and/or amendment
of a contract by the special agency causes losses on certain party, such
party may only seek damages not exceeding the benefit value which has
been derived from such contract after being proven that the losses are
actual and certain.

23

Letter e
transferring of assets by the special agency shall be accompanied by
transferring of ownership title of the assets to the buyer. Therefore the
buyer obtains legal certainty regarding the transfer of the assets
concerned.
The selling or transferring of the assets may be carried out directly or
through public offering to get the best price.
Letter f
Other parties as mentioned in this paragraph are individual person,
state owned company, private company, and/or other legal entity.
Letter g
Other parties as mentioned in this paragraph are individual person,
state owned company, private company, and/or other legal entity.
Letter h
Self explanatory.
Letter i
According to this provisions, against the receivables of a Bank to third
parties which have been taken over by the special agency, the special
agency may collect such receivables by issuing a distress warant
(“Surat Paksa”) based on the records of the debtor‘s debts in the Bank
under the restructuring programme.
This distress warrant shall have a title “In the Name of Justice under
God Almighty” having an execution power and the same legal power as
a final and binding court decision. In case the action for collecting
receivables is ignored by the Debtor, the special agency may seize the
Debtor’s assets and furthermore may conduct an auction on such assets
for the purpose of repayment of the debt concerned. Assets which may
not be seized include household equipment, books, and other work
equipments which are needed for carrying on the debtor’s life.
Although this special agency is granted the power for conducting a
forced collection, the implementation procedures thereof shall always be
subject to the principles of legal certainty and justice.
Letter j
Self explanatory.
Letter k
In order to obtain the information concerned, the special agency may
ask the assistance authorized State’s law enforcement agencies.

24
Any other parties means Affiliated Parties and other parties who
involved or to be considered involved, including any legal entity owned
by the Bank or Affiliated Parties.
Letter l
The losses concerned may be caused by an unfair transaction which
involves the bank under the program. The unfair transaction i.e. :
a. Transaction which is illegally favoring certain parties;
b. Transaction which does not provide terms and conditions resulted
from negotiation between parties which are not affiliated each other;
or
c. Transaction which causes the Bank concerned receiving value
unequal to the value released or given by the Bank.
Letter m
Self explanatory.
Letter n
Other actions referred to in this provision are i.e. establishing a division
within the special agency or establishing and/or conducting an equity
participation in a legal entity.
Paragraph (4)
Any legal actions carrying out by any parties will not prevent or delay the
legal actions conducting by the special agency as referred to in this Article.
In the event that a final and binding court decision is issued in favour of the
other party, the special agency shall obey such a court decision.
Paragraph (5)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (6)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (7)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (8)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (9)
The salient features of the Government Regulation shall include among
others :
a. The establishment of the special agency;
b. Budget and expenditure of the special agency;

25
c. The collection procedures of receivables owned by Banks under
restructuring programme;
d. The procedures for the temporary equity participation;
e. The winding up;
f. The Bank restructuring procedures.

Article 37B
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
The establishment of the Deposit Protection Institution is deemed necessary
for the purpose of protecting the Customer interest and in the same time
improving the public trust to Banks.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (4)
The salient features of the Government Regulation shall include among
others :
a. The establishment of the Deposit Protection Institution;
b. The organisation structure;
c. The option of the protection schemes;
d. The obligation of a Bank to be a member of the Institution.

Article 38
Paragraph (1)
The provisions in this Article shall also apply to a Bank legally established as
a cooperative in the event of an appointment or change of the officials on the
same level as the directors and members of the board of the commissioners.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

Article 39
Paragraph (1)
A Bank may employ expatriates in compliance with the need of the Bank.
As for a Rural Bank or a Commercial Bank, such expatriates shall be
temporary, and shall be limited to experts, advisors, and consultants, in

26
accordance with the needs of the Bank. As for a joint Bank or branch of a
Bank, the head office of which domiciled overseas, such expatriate staff shall
be employed in compliance with the characteristics of foreign ownership.
Nevertheless, the employment of expatriates in the joint Bank or a branch of
a Bank, the head office of which domiciled overseas, shall be adjusted to the
Indonesianization program.
Paragraph (2)
This Government Regulation shall provide requirements covering among
others elaboration of the provisions of paragraph (1), for example, the type of
work or expertise which the expatriates are still needed and period of
employment based on the prevailing manpower laws.

Article 40
Paragraph (1)
If a Customer of a Bank is a Deposit Customer who at the same time is also a
Debtor Customer, the Bank shall keep confidential (undisclosed) the
information concerning the Customer in its status as a Deposit Customer.
Information concerning Customers other than Deposit Customer, is not
information that shall be keep confidential by the Bank.
A Bank conducting activities as a stock exchange supporting institution,
such as a Bank as a Custodian and/or Trustee, subject to the prevailing
provisions and regulations concerning the stock exchange.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

Article 41
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

Article 41A
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.

27
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 42
Paragraph (1)
The word “may” emphasizes that the permission of the Chairmen of Bank
Indonesia will be granted as long as the request concerned meets the
provisions as referred to in paragraph (3).
Paragraph (2)
The permission from Bank Indonesia shall be given at the latest of 14
(fourteen) days after the documents of request are completely received.
Paragraph (3)
Self explanatory.

Article 42A
Self explanatory.

Article 43
In a civil case between a Bank and its Customer as referred to in this Article, the
Bank may disclose the financial condition of the Customer and other information
relevant to the case in the court proceeding without permission from the
Minister.

Article 44
Paragraph (1)
Inter-bank exchange of information which is meant to smoothen and secure
Banking operations covers among others efforts to prevent double Credit,
and to ascertain the condition and status of another Bank. Thus a Bank will
be able to appraise the degree of risk before entering into a transaction with a
Customer or with another Bank.
Paragraph (2)
Further provisions determined by Bank Indonesia cover among others the
procedures to submit and to request information, forms and types of

28
particular information to be exchanged, such as general indicators of Credit
extended by the Customer, Collateral, and the inclusion of the Customer in
the bad debt list, if any.

Article 44A
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

Article 45
If a bank does not fulfil the request for the rectification by a party who in his
opinion has suffered harm as a result of information disclosed by the Bank, the
matter may be submitted to a competent court by the party concerned.

Article 46
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

Article 47
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
The term “Bank employees” refers to all officials and employees of a Bank.

Article 47A
Self explanatory.

Article 48
Paragraph (1)
The term “Bank employees” refers to officials of a Bank authorized and
responsible for performing the operational duties of the Bank, and employees
with access to information regarding the condition of the Bank.
Paragraph (2)

29
Self explanatory.
Article 49
Paragraph (1)
The term “Bank employees” refers to all officials and employees of a Bank.
Paragraph (2)
Letter a
The term “Bank employees” refers to all officials and employees of a
Bank.
Letter b
The term Bank employees refers to officials of a Bank authorized and
responsible for performing the operational duties of the Bank, and
employees with access to information regarding the condition of the
Bank.

Article 50
Self explanatory.

Article 50A
Self explanatory.

Article 51
Paragraph (1)
The offences as stipulated in the articles of this paragraph are categorized as
felony, meaning that for such offences stronger legal penalties will be
imposed than for misdemeanors. This provision is imposed under the
consideration that Bank is an institution entrusted by the public to hold their
funds. Therefore it is always necessary to avoid any offence that may result
in destruction of public trust in a Bank, which is in principle detrimental to
the interest of the Bank and the public.
By classifying such offences as felonies, it is expected that there will be
utmost adherence to the provisions in this Act.
The penalty provisions stated in Chapter VIII shall in principle apply to
felonies committed by the members of the board of commissioners, the board
of directors or employees of a Rural Bank, as such criminal penalties apply
on general scale.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.

30

Article 52
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (3)
The salient features of the Bank Indonesia provisions shall include among
others :
a. The types of administrative sanctions;
b. The implementation procedures of administrative sanctions;
c. The further implementation of administrative sanctions;
d. The supervision of the implementation of administrative sanctions.
Article 53
In this Article, administrative sanctions may comprise :
a. a fine,i.e. the obligation to pay specific sum of money as a result of failure to
adhere to a provision in this Act;
b. dispatch of written warning;
c. prohibition from performing the function as a director or a member of the
board of commissioners;
d. prohibition of rendering services to Banks;
e. dispatch recommendation to the competent agency to revoke or cancel the
operating license as a provider of services to Banks (e.g. consultant, legal
consultant, public accountant, and appraiser).

Article 54
Paragraph (1)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (2)
Self explanatory.
Paragraph (3)
The change of the form legal entity of state Banks as referred to in this
Article shall be implemented pursuant to Act No. 9 of 1969 and the
Government Regulation No. 12 of 1969. After the change has been
conducted, the Acts concerning the establishment of the state Bank shall no
longer be valid.

31
Similarly, Act No. 13 of 1962 shall no longer be valid within 1 (one) year
after this Act coming into force.

Article 55
Self explanatory.

Article 56
This provision provides Banks with the opportunity to adjust gradually with the
provisions on legal lending limit stipulated in this Act, thus enabling Banks to
avoid serious difficulties in meeting such requirements, with the consideration
that the prevailing legal lending limit is higher than that set forth in Article 11
paragraph (2) and paragraph (4)

Article 57
The transformation of a non-bank financial institution to a Bank as stipulated in
this Act may be implemented within a period of not more than 1 (one) year from
this Act coming into force. The transformation of a non-bank financial institution
to a Securities house shall be based on capital market regulations.

Article 58
In the view of the fact that the institution referred to in this Article have grown
and developed in Indonesian society, and are still in demand by the public, the
existence of such institutions is still acknowledged. Therefore, this Act shall
clarify the status of such institutions. To attain uniformity, the requirements and
procedures for conferring the status of the Rural Bank to such institutions shall
be stipulated in a government regulation.

Article 59
This provision is stipulated to avoid the existence of a legal vacuum and to
accommodate solutions to problems that may arise until the enactment of the
new provisions.

Article 59A

32
The special agency as referred to in this Article shall have a temporary nature,
with special tasks to carry out any necessary steps for the national Banking
restructuring.
An existing agency established for the purpose of carrying out Banking
restructuring tasks, may continuously carry out its tasks according this Act.

Article 60
Self explanatory.

Article 61
Self explanatory.

Article II
Self explanatory.

SUPPLEMENT TO THE STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 3790

