THE DATA PROTECTION ACT, 2020
(Act

of 2020)

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I—Preliminary
1. Short title and commencement.
2. Interpretation and objects.
3. Application of Act.
4. Information Commissioner.
PART II—Rights of Data Subjects and Others
5. Interpretation for Part II.
6. Right of access to personal data.
7. Manner and extent to which information shall be supplied under section
6.
8. Grounds limiting compliance with request for access.
9. Consent to processing.
10. Consent required for direct marketing.
11. Right to prevent processing.
12. Rights in relation to automated decision-taking.
13. Rectification of inaccuracies, etc.
PART III—Requirements for Data Controllers
14. Interpretation for Part III.
15. Prohibition on processing without registration.
16. Provision of registration particulars.
17. Register.
18. Offences.
19. Assessment by Commissioner required for specified processing.
20. Appointment of data protection officers.

ii
PART IV—Standards for Processing Personal Data
21. Duty of data controller to comply with standards.
22. The first standard.
23. Conditions for processing personal data in accordance with the first
standard.
24.

Conditions for processing sensitive personal data in accordance with
the first standard.

25.

The second standard.

26.

The third standard.

27.

The fourth standard.

28.

The fifth standard.

29.

The sixth standard.

30.

The seventh standard.

31.

The eighth standard.
PART V—Exemptions to Data Protection Standards or to
Disclosure to Data Subject Requirements

32. Interpretation for Part V.
33. National security.
34. Law enforcement, taxation, statutory functions, etc.
35. Regulatory activity.
36. Journalism, literature and art.
37. Research, history and statistics.
38. Information available to the public by or under any enactment.
39. Disclosures required by law or made in connection with legal proceedings,
etc.
40. Parliamentary privilege.
41. Domestic purposes.
42. Miscellaneous exemptions.
43. Power to make further exemptions by order.

iii
PART VI—Enforcement
44. Enforcement notice.
45. Data protection impact assessment.
46. Requests for assessment.
47. Assessment notices.
48. Limitations on assessment notices.
49. Information notices.
50. Determination by Commissioner as to the special purposes.
51. Restriction on enforcement in case of processing for the special
purposes.
52. Failure to comply with notice.
53. Rights of appeal.
54. Determination of appeals.
55. Powers of entry and inspection.
PART VII—Miscellaneous and General
56. Reports and guidelines to be laid before Parliament.
57. Data-sharing code.
58. Effect of data-sharing code.
59. Assistance by Commissioner in cases involving processing for the
special purposes.
60. International co-operation.
61. Unlawfully obtaining, disclosing, etc., personal data.
62. Power of Commissioner to impose fixed penalty.
63. Prohibition of requirements as to production of certain records.
64. Avoidance of certain contractual terms relating to health records.
65. Disclosure of information.
66. Confidentiality of information.
67. Prosecutions and penalties.
68. Liability of body corporate, directors, etc.

iv
69. Liability for damage.
70. Appeals.
71. Service of notices.
72. Application to Crown.
73. Application to Parliament.
74. Regulations.
75. Amendment of monetary and fixed penalties.
76. Transitional.
77. Review of Act.
SCHEDULES.

1

A BILL
ENTITLED

AN ACT to Protect the privacy of certain data and for connected
matters.
[

]

BE IT ENACTED by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Representatives of Jamaica, and by the authority of the same, as
follows:—
PART 1—Preliminary
1.—(1) This Act may be cited as the Data Protection Act, 2020,
and shall come into operation on a day appointed by the Minister
by notice published in the Gazette, and different days may be
appointed in respect of different provisions of this Act.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may
specify different dates for bringing this Act into operation as regards

Short title
and
commencement.

2

different types of personal data specified in a notice made under
that subsection.
Interpretation and
objects.

2.—(1) In this Act—
“biometric data”, in relation to an individual, means any information
relating to the physical, physiological or behavioural
characteristics of that individual, which allows for the unique
identification of the individual, and includes—
(a) physical characteristics such as the photograph
or other facial image, finger print, palm print, toe
print, foot print, iris scan, retina scan, blood type,
height, vein pattern, or eye colour, of the individual,
or such other biological attribute of the individual
as may be prescribed; and
(b) behavioural characteristics such as a person’s gait,
signature, keystrokes or voice;
“Commissioner” means the office of Information Commissioner
established by section 4;
“Court” means the Supreme Court;
“data controller” means any—
(a) person; or
(b) public authority,
who, either alone or jointly or in common with other persons
determines the purposes for which and the manner in which
any personal data are, or are to be, processed, and where
personal data are processed only for purposes for which
they are required under any enactment to be processed, the
person on whom the obligation to process the personal data
is imposed by or under that enactment is for the purposes of
this Act a data controller;
“data controller representative” means a person or other entity
appointed for the purposes of section 3(2);

3

“data processor”, in relation to personal data, means any person,
other than an employee of the data controller,who processes
the data on behalf of the data controller;
“data protection standards” means the data protection standards
as set out in sections 22 to 31, and reference to any of those
standards by number means the standard as numbered in
any of those sections;
“data subject” means a named or otherwise identifiable individual
who is the subject of personal data, and in determining whether
an individual is identifiable account shall be taken of all means
used or reasonably likely to be used by the data controller
or any other person to identify the individual, such as
reference to an identification number or other identifying
characteristics (whether physical, social or otherwise) which
are reasonably likely to lead to the identification of the
individual;
“disclosure to data subject requirements” means—
(a) the information mentioned in section 22(6)
required to be given to a data subject under section
22(4); and
(b) the provisions of section 6;
“genetic data” means DNA as defined by the DNA Evidence Act,
2016;
“good practice” means such practice as appears to the
Commissioner to be desirable having regard to the interests
of data subjects and others, and includes (but is not limited
to) compliance with the requirements of this Act;
“health professional” means any of the following—
(a) a medical practitioner registered under the Medical
Act;
(b) a person registered as a dentist under the Dental
Act;

4

(c) a person entitled to practice optometry under the
Opticians Act;
(d) a person registered as a pharmacist or pharmacy
owner under the Pharmacy Act;
(e) a person registered as a nurse or midwife, or
enrolled as an assistant nurse, under the Nurses
and Midwives Act;
(f)

a person registered as a member of a “specified
profession” within the meaning of section 2 of the
Professions Supplementary to Medicine Act;

(g) a regional hospital or public health facility, within
the meaning of section 2 of the National Health
Services Act;
(h) a private hospital or private health facility;
(i)

the National Health Fund;

(j)

a provider of ambulance services;

(k) the Hospital established pursuant to the University
Hospital Act;
“health record” means any record which—
(a) is in the custody or control of a health professional
in connection with the care of an individual; and
(b) consists of information relating to –
(i)

the past or present physical or mental
health, or condition, of an individual,
for example—
(A) clinical information about
diagnosis and treatment;
(B) genetic data;
(C) information about the
testing of any body part or

5

bodily substance, or the
donation of a body part or
bodily substance;
(D) biometric data;
(ii) the registration of an individual for the
provision of health services and any
number, symbol or code assigned to
uniquely identify the individual for those
services;
(iii) the name of the individual’s health care
provider; or
(iv) payments made by, or the eligibility of,
the individual for the provision of health
services,or any other health related
information about the individual that is
collected in the course of the provision
of health services to that individual;
“minor” in relation to an individual means an individual
under the age of eighteen years;
“personal data”—
(a) means information (however stored)
relating to—
(i)

a living individual; or

(ii) an individual who has been
deceased for less than thirty
years,
who can be identified from that
information alone or from that
information and other information in the
possession of, or likely to come into
the possession of, the data controller;
and

6

(b) includes any expression of opinion
about that individual and any indication
of the intentions of the data controller
or any other person in respect of that
individual;
“process” in relation to information or personal data means
obtaining, recording or storing the information or personal
data, or carrying out any operation or set of operations
(whether or not by automated means) on the information or
data, including—
(a) organisation, adaptation or alteration of the
information or data;
(b) retrieving, consulting or using the information or
data;
(c) disclosing the information or data by transmitting,
disseminating or otherwise making it available; or
(d) aligning, combining, blocking, erasing or
destroying the information or data, or rendering
the data anonymous;
“public authority” means—
(a) a Ministry, department, Executive Agency or other
agency of Government;
(b) a statutory body or authority, being a body
corporate established by an Act of Parliament and
over which the Government or an agency of the
Government exercises control;
(c) the council of a Local Authority, within the meaning
of the Local Governance Act;
(d) any company registered under the Companies
Act, being a company in which the Government
or an agency of the Government is in a position to
direct the policy of that company;

7

(e) a commission of Parliament; or
(f)

any other body or organization which provides
services of a public nature which are essential to
the welfare of Jamaican society, or such aspects
of their operations, as may be specified by the
Minister by order published in the Gazette;

“sensitive personal data” means personal data consisting of any of
the following information in respect of a data subject—
(a) genetic data or biometric data;
(b) filiation, or racial or ethnic origin;
(c) political opinions, philosophical beliefs, religious
beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature;
(d) membership in any trade union;
(e) physical or mental health or condition;
(f)

sex life;

(g) the alleged commission of any offence by the data
subject or any proceedings for any offence alleged
to have been committed by the data subject;
“the non-disclosure provisions” means the following provisions,
to the extent to which they prohibit the disclosure in
question—
(a) the first data protection standard, except to the
extent to which disclosure is required for
compliance with the conditions set out in sections
23 and 24;
(b) the second, third, fourth and fifth data protection
standards; and
(c) sections 11 and 13(3) and (4);
“the special purposes” means any one or more of the following—
(a) the purposes of journalism;

8

(b) artistic purposes;
(c) literary purposes;
“trade association” includes any body representing data controllers.
(2) For the purposes of this Act—
(a) “obtaining” or “recording”, in relation to personal data,
includes obtaining or recording the information to be contained
in the personal data; and
(b) “using” or “disclosing”, in relation to personal data, includes
using or disclosing the information contained in the personal
data.
(3) The objects of this Act are to—
(a) define the general principles for the treatment of personal
data relating to an individual; and
(b) provide for transparent oversight therefor, that will enable
the public and private sectors to strengthen the protection of
personal data.
Application
of Act.

3.—(1) Except as otherwise provided for in section 60, this Act
applies to a data controller in respect of any personal data only if the
data controller –
(a) is established in Jamaica or in any place where Jamaican law
applies by virtue of international public law, and the personal
data are processed in the context of that establishment; or
(b) though not established in Jamaica—
(i)

uses equipment in Jamaica for processing the
personal data otherwise than for the purpose of
transit through Jamaica; or

(ii) processes personal data, of a data subject who is
in Jamaica, and the processing activities are related
to—
(A) the offering of products or services to
data subjects in Jamaica, irrespective

9

of whether a payment of the data
subject is required; or
(B) the monitoring of the behaviour of data
subjects as far as their behaviour takes
place within Jamaica.
(2) Adata controller falling within subsection (1)(b) shall appoint
for the purposes of this Act a representative established in Jamaica.
(3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), each of the
following shall be treated as established in Jamaica—
(a) an individual who is ordinarily resident in Jamaica;
(b) a body incorporated under the laws of Jamaica;
(c) a partnership or other unincorporated association formed
under the laws of Jamaica;
(d) any person who does not fall within paragraph (a), (b) or (c)
but who maintains in Jamaica—
(i)

an office, branch or agency through which the
person carries on any activity; or

(ii) a regular practice.
Information
Commissioner.

4.—(1) There is hereby established for the purposes of this Act an
office to be known as the Information Commissioner, which shall be a
body corporate to which the provisions of section 28 of the Interpretation
Act applies.

First
Schedule,
Part I.

(2) The provisions of Part I of the First Schedule shall have
effect as regards the constitution of the office of Information
Commissioner.
(3) The Commissioner shall perform the functions—
(a) conferred on the Commissioner under this Act; and
(b) such other functions as may be conferred on the
Commissioner by the Access to Information Act.
(4) For the purposes of this Act, the Commissioner shall act
independently in the discharge of the functions of the Commissioner

10

and shall not be subject to the direction or control of any person or
other entity, except as provided in subsection (10).
(5) It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to—
(a) monitor compliance with this Act and any regulations made
under this Act;
(b) give to the Minister such advice as the Commissioner
considers appropriate, or as may be requested by the
Minister, on any matter relating to the operation of this Act
or otherwise for the protection of personal data;
(c) promote the observance of the requirements of this Act and
the following of good practice by data controllers;
(d) arrange for the dissemination, in such form and manner as
the Commissioner considers appropriate, of such information
as it may appear to the Commissioner expedient to give to
the public about the operation of this Act, about good practice,
and about other matters within the scope of the
Commissioner’s functions under this Act, and the
Commissioner may give advice to any person about any of
those matters;
(e) prepare and disseminate, or direct the preparation and
dissemination of, to such persons or other entities as the
Commissioner considers appropriate, guidelines to be
adhered to as good practice—
(i)

where the Commissioner considers it appropriate;
and

(ii) after such consultation with trade associations or
persons representing data controllers, data
subjects, or persons representing data subjects,
or such other entities having an interest in the
matter, as appears to the Commissioner to be
appropriate;

11

(f)

where the Commissioner considers it appropriate to do so—
(i)

encourage trade associations to prepare, and to
disseminate to their members, self-initiated
guidelines; and

(ii) where any trade association submits self-initiated
guidelines for the Commissioner’s consideration,
consider the guidelines and, after such consultation
with data subjects or persons representing data
subjects, as appears to the Commissioner to be
appropriate, notify the trade association whether
in the Commissioner’s opinion the guidelines
promote the following of good practice.
(6) A direction under subsection (5)(e) shall—
(a) describe the personal data or processing to which the
guidelines are to relate, and may also describe the persons
or classes of persons to whom the guidelines are to relate;
(b) be directed to the appropriate regulatory authority having
responsibility for the subject matter concerned; and
(c) limit the time within which the draft guidelines shall be
submitted to the Commissioner for approval.
(7) In determining the action required to discharge the duties
imposed by subsection (5), the Commissioner may take account of any
action taken to discharge the duty imposed by section 57 (data sharing
code).
(8) The Commissioner may, at the written request of the data
controller concerned, assess any processing of personal data as to the
following of good practice and shall inform the data controller of the
results of the assessment.
(9) The Commissioner may charge such fees as may be
prescribed for any services provided by the Commissioner under
subsection (8).

12

First
Schedule,
Part II.

(10) The Commissioner shall be subject to the oversight of the
Data Protection Oversight Committee in accordance with Part II of the
First Schedule.
(11) Without prejudice to section 67, the Commissioner may
intervene as a party in any proceedings before a court, in respect of any
matter concerning the processing of personal data or the enforcement
of any provision of this Act, other than proceedings for the prosecution
of an offence.
PART II—Rights of Data Subjects and Others

Interpretation
for Part II.

5. For the purposes of this Part—
(a) in the case of an individual who—
(i)

is a minor, the rights conferred by this Part may
be exercised by a parent or legal guardian of the
minor, or by the minor in any case where the law
recognises the capacity of the minor to act in the
matter to which the personal data relates; or

(ii) by reason of any mental impairment is unable to
act, the rights conferred by this Part may be
exercised by the person’s nearest relative, within
the meaning of section 3(3) of the Mental Health
Act, so, however, that—
(A) such a relative need not be ordinarily
resident in Jamaica; and
(B) the Court may, where it considers it
appropriate in the circumstances, on
an application made to it by a relative
of the data subject, determine the
nearest relative suitable to exercise the
rights notwithstanding the order of
precedence referred to in section 3(3)
of the Mental Health Act;
(b) in the case of any other individual, the rights conferred by
this Part may be exercised by—
(i)

the legal personal representative of that individual;
or

13

(ii) another individual to whom the first mentioned
individual delegates in writing, in such form and
manner as may be prescribed, the exercise of the
rights.
6.—(1) The rights conferred by this section are subject to the
exemptions set out in Part V, to the extent indicated in that Part, and a
data controller shall determine in each case whether compliance with a
request lawfully made under this section can be achieved without
compromising the confidentiality of the exempt data, by severing the
exempt data from any information required to be disclosed under this
section.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this section and sections 7 and
8, an individual is entitled, upon making a written request to a data
controller—
(a) to be informed by the data controller, free of charge, whether
personal data of which that individual is the data subject are
being processed by or on behalf of that data controller;
(b) if personal data are being processed as described in
paragraph (a), to be given by the data controller, free of
charge, a description of—
(i)

the personal data of which that individual is the
data subject;

(ii) the purposes for which the personal data are
being, or are to be, processed; and
(iii) the recipients or classes of recipients to whom
they are, or may be, disclosed;
(c) upon payment of the prescribed fee—
(i)

to have communicated to that individual in an
intelligible form—
(A) the information constituting any
personal data of which the individual
is the data subject; and
(B) any information available to the data
controller as to the source of those
personal data; or

Right of
access to
personal data.

14

(ii) where technically feasible, to have transmitted—
(A) to another data controller specified in
the request; and
(B) in a structured, commonly used and
machine-readable format,
the personal data of that data subject, which the
data subject has provided to the first mentioned
data controller; and
(d) where the processing, by automatic means, of personal data
of which that individual is the data subject—
(i)

is for the purpose of evaluating matters relating
to that individual (such as, for example, the
individual’s performance at work, creditworthiness, reliability, or conduct); and

(ii) has constituted or is likely to constitute the sole
basis for any decision significantly affecting the
individual,
to be informed by the data controller, upon payment of the
prescribed fee, of the logic involved in that decision-taking.
(3) An individual making a request under this section may, in
such cases as may be prescribed, specify that his request is limited to
personal data of any prescribed description.
(4) Subject to section 8(1), a data controller shall comply with
a request under this section promptly and, in any event, before the end
of the period of thirty days, or such longer maximum period as may be
prescribed, beginning on the day on which the data controller has both
the request and, where applicable, the payment referred to in subsection
(2).
(5) For the purposes of—
(a) subsection (2)(c) and (d), different amounts may be
prescribed for different circumstances;
(b) subsection (4), different periods may be prescribed for
different circumstances.

15

(6) If the Commissioner is satisfied, on the written application
of any individual who has made a request under this section, that—
(a) the data controller in question has, in contravention of this
section, failed to comply with the request the Commissioner
may order the data controller to comply with the request; or
(b) the data controller has complied with the provisions of this
section in dealing with the request, the Commissioner may
dismiss the application.
(7) For the purposes of determining any question whether an
applicant under subsection (6) is entitled to information under this section
(including any question whether any relevant personal data are exempt
from this section by virtue of Part V), the Commissioner—
(a) may require the information constituting any personal data
processed by or on behalf of the data controller in question
and any information as to the logic for any decision as
mentioned in subsection (2)(d) to be made available for the
Commissioner’s inspection; and
(b) shall not, pending the determination of the question in the
applicant’s favour, require the information to be disclosed to
the applicant or the applicant’s representatives.
(8) The Commissioner may appoint a duly qualified mediator
to consider any matter to be determined or inspected by the
Commissioner under subsection (6) or (7) and make such
recommendations to the Commissioner as the mediator thinks fit for
the settlement of the matter, and the Commissioner may act on those
recommendations.
7.—(1) The obligation imposed by section 6(2)(c)(i) shall be
complied with by supplying the data subject with a copy of the information
in permanent form unless—
(a) the supply of such a copy is not possible or would involve
disproportionate effort; or
(b) the data subject agrees otherwise,

Manner and
extent to
which
information
shall be
supplied
under section
6.

16

and where any of the information referred to in section 6(2)(c)(i) is
expressed in terms which are not intelligible without explanation, the
copy shall be accompanied by an explanation of those terms.
(2) For the purposes of section 6(2)(c) “intelligible form”, in
the case of a person with a disability (as defined by the Disabilities
Act), means a form that would render the information readily accessible
by the person, having regard to the special needs of the person, and
regulations may prescribe circumstances in which the requirements of
subsection (2)(c) shall be taken to have been met.
(3) The information to be supplied pursuant to a request under
section 6 shall be supplied by reference to the personal data in question
at the time when the request is received, except that it may take account
of any amendment or deletion made between that time and the time
when the information is supplied, being an amendment or deletion that
would have been made regardless of the receipt of the request.
Grounds
limiting
compliance
with request
for access.

8.—(1) Where a data controller—
(a) reasonably requires further information in order to satisfy
himself as to the identity of an individual who makes a request
under section 6 and to locate the information which that
individual seeks; and
(b) has informed the individual of that requirement,
the data controller is not obliged to comply with the request unless the
further information is supplied to the data controller.
(2) Where a data controller cannot comply with a request
under section 6 without disclosing information relating to another
individual who can be identified from that information, the data controller
is not obliged to comply with the request unless—
(a) the other individual consents to the disclosure of the
information; or
(b) it is reasonable in all the circumstances to comply with the
request without the consent of the other individual and the
data controller has notified that other individual of the data
controller’s intention to comply with the request.

17

(3) In subsection (2), the reference to information relating to
another individual includes a reference to information identifying that
individual as the source of the information sought by the request, and
that subsection shall not be construed as excusing a data controller
from communicating only so much of the information sought by the
request as can be communicated without disclosing the identity of the
other individual concerned, whether by the omission of names or other
identifying particulars or otherwise.
(4) For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), another
individual can be identified from the information being disclosed if that
other individual can be identified from that information alone or from
that information and other information which, in the reasonable belief of
the data controller, is likely to be in, or come into, the possession of the
data subject making the request.
(5) In determining for the purposes of subsection (2)(b) whether
it is reasonable in all the circumstances to comply with the request without
the consent of the other individual concerned, regard shall be had, in
particular, to—
(a) any duty of confidentiality owed to the other individual;
(b) any steps taken by the data controller with a view to seeking
the consent of the other individual;
(c) whether the other individual is capable of giving consent;
and
(d) any express refusal of consent by the other individual.
(6) Where a data controller has previously complied with a
request made under section 6 by an individual, the data controller is not
obliged to comply with a subsequent identical or similar request under
that section by the individual unless a reasonable interval has elapsed
between compliance with the previous request and the making of the
subsequent request.
(7) In determining for the purposes of subsection (6) whether
requests under section 6 are made at reasonable intervals, regard shall
be had to the nature of the personal data, the purpose for which the

18

personal data are processed and the frequency with which the personal
data are altered.
(8) Section 6(2)(d) shall not be regarded as requiring the
provision of information as to the logic for any decision if, and to the
extent that, the information constitutes a trade secret.
(9) Where personal data requested under section 6—
(a) is not in the custody or control of the data controller, the
data controller shall in writing so inform the individual making
the request; or
(b) are personal data which the data controller is entitled to refuse
to disclose to the data subject by virtue of any provision of
this Act, the data controller shall in writing inform the individual
making the request that the disclosure is refused and identify
the relevant provision relied on for the refusal,
within thirty days after receiving the request.
Consent to
Processing.

9.—(1) Any consent required to be given, by a data subject, to the
processing of personal data—
(a) means any informed, specific, unequivocal, freely given,
expression of will by which the data subject agrees to the
processing of that data subject’s personal data;
(b) includes any such expression of consent given by—
(i)

the legal personal representative of the data
subject;

(ii) any individual to whom the data subject delegates,
in writing in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, the right to give or withhold consent
to the processing;
(iii) in the case of a minor, (subject to section 5(a)(i)),
a parent or legal guardian of the minor; or
(iv) in the case of an individual who by reason of any
mental impairment is unable to act, the person

19

entitled to act for that individual under section
5(a)(ii); and
(c) may be withdrawn in the same manner in which it may be
given under paragraph (a).
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
(a) “informed” with reference to the giving of consent means
that at the time in question the data subject is informed about
how the personal data will be processed, including the
purpose for which the data will be used and the class of
persons to whom the personal data may be transferred; and
(b) consent is not freely given if the data subject is required, as a
condition for the provision of any goods or services to the
data subject, to consent to the collection, use or disclosure
of the data subject’s personal data beyond what is reasonable
for the provision of those goods or services.
10.—(1) A data controller shall not process personal data of a data
subject for the purpose of direct marketing unless the data subject—
(a) consents to the processing for that purpose; or
(b) is, subject to subsection (4), a customer of the data controller.
(2) A data controller shall not approach a data subject, whose
consent is required in terms of subsection (1)(a), more than once in
order to request that consent.
(3) A request for consent in terms of subsection (1)(a) shall be
made in the prescribed form and manner.
(4) A data controller may, pursuant to subsection (1)(b), only
process the personal data of a data subject who is a customer of that
data controller—
(a) if the data controller has obtained the contact details of the
data subject in the context of the sale of any goods or
services;
(b) for the purpose of direct marketing of the data controller’s
own similar goods or services; and

Consent
required for
direct
marketing.

20

(c) if the data subject has been given a reasonable opportunity
to object, free of charge and in a manner free of unnecessary
formality, to such use of that data subject’s personal data—
(i)

at the time the personal data was collected; and

(ii) on the occasion of each communication with the
data subject for the purpose of direct marketing
if the data subject has not refused such use.
(5) Any communication to a data subject for the purpose of
direct marketing shall contain—
(a) the details of the identity of the sender or the person on
whose behalf the communication has been sent; and
(b) an address or other contact details to which the recipient
may send a request that such communication cease.
(6) In this Act, “direct marketing” means to approach a data
subject in person or by any means of communication (whether electronic
or otherwise) for the direct or indirect purpose of—
(a) promoting or offering to supply, in the ordinary course of
business, any goods or services; or
(b) requesting a donation of any kind for any reason.
Right to
prevent
processing.

11.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), on any of the grounds set out in
subsection (2) an individual is entitled at any time, by notice in writing to
the data controller, to require the data controller—
(a) within a period which is reasonable in the circumstances, to
cease; or
(b) not to begin,
processing, or processing for a specified purpose or in a specified
manner, any personal data in respect of which the individual is the data
subject.
(2) The grounds referred to in subsection (1) are that, for
reasons which shall be specified in the notice under subsection (1)—
(a) the processing of the personal data, or the processing of the
personal data for that purpose or in that manner, is causing

21

or is likely to cause, substantial damage or substantial distress
to the data subject or to another, and that the damage or
distress caused or likely to be caused (as the case may be)
is unwarranted;
(b) the personal data is incomplete, or irrelevant, having regard
to the purpose of the processing;
(c) the processing of the personal data, or the processing of the
personal data for that purpose or in that manner, is prohibited
under any law; or
(d) the personal data has been retained by the data controller
for longer than the period of time for which it may be retained
by the data controller under any law.
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply—
(a) in a case where any of the conditions set out in section 23(1)
is met; or
(b) in such other cases as the Minister may specify by order in
accordance with section 74(3)(b).
(4) A data controller who receives a notice under subsection
(1) shall, within twenty-one days after receiving the notice, give the
individual who gave the notice a written statement—
(a) that the data controller has complied or intends to comply
with the notice; or
(b) of the data controller’s reasons for regarding the notice as,
to any extent, unjustified and the extent (if any) to which the
data controller has complied or intends to comply with the
notice.
(5) If the Commissioner is satisfied, on the written application
of any individual who has given a notice under subsection (1) which
appears to the Commissioner to be justified, or to be justified to any
extent, that the data controller in question has failed to comply with the
notice, the Commissioner may order the data controller to take such
steps for complying with the notice (or complying with the notice to
such extent) as the Commissioner thinks fit.

22

(6) The failure by a data subject to exercise the rights conferred
on that individual by subsection (1) or section 12(2) shall not be
construed as affecting any other right conferred on the data subject by
this Part.
Rights in
relation to
automated
decisiontaking.

12.—(1) This section applies to a decision, other than an exempt
decision, taken by or on behalf of a data controller and which significantly
affects a data subject.
(2) An individual is entitled at any time, by notice in writing to
the data controller, to require the data controller to ensure that no decision
to which this section applies is based solely on the processing, by
automatic means, of personal data in respect of the data subject for the
purpose of evaluating matters relating to the data subject (for example,
the individual’s performance at work, creditworthiness, reliability, or
conduct).
(3) In any case where a data controller who has not received
a notice under subsection (2) in respect of an individual takes a decision
to which this section applies—
(a) the data controller shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable,
inform the individual that the decision was made on the basis
described in subsection (2); and
(b) the individual is entitled to, within thirty days after receiving
the information under paragraph (a), by notice in writing
require the data controller to reconsider the decision or make
a new decision otherwise than on that basis.
(4) A data controller who receives a notice under subsection
(3)(b) shall, within thirty days after receiving the notice, give the individual
in question a written statement specifying the steps that the data
controller intends to take to comply with the notice.
(5) If the Commissioner is satisfied on the application of a
data subject that a data controller has failed to comply with a notice
under subsection (2) or (3)(b), the Commissioner may order the data
controller to reconsider the decision, or to take a new decision, that is
not based solely on such processing as is described in subsection (2).

23

(6) An order under subsection (5) shall not affect the rights of
any person other than the data subject and the data controller.
(7) In this section “exempt decision” means any decision—
(a) in respect of which the conditions set out in subsection (8)
are met; or
(b) made in such other circumstances as may be prescribed.
(8) The conditions are that—
(a) the decision—
(i)

is authorised or required by or under any
enactment; or

(ii) is made in the course of steps taken—
(A) for the purpose of considering whether
to enter into a contract with the data
subject or with a view to entering into
such a contract; or
(B) in the course of performing a contract
entered into with the data subject; and
(b) either—
(i)

the effect of the decision is to grant a request of
the data subject; or

(ii) steps have been taken to safeguard the legitimate
interest of the data subject (for example, by
allowing the data subject to make representations).
13.—(1) An individual may in writing to a data controller request
that the data controller rectify any inaccuracy in any personal data—
(a) in the possession or control of the data controller; and
(b) of which the individual is the data subject.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
“inaccuracy” includes any error or omission;

Rectification
of
inaccuracies,
etc.

24

“rectify” means amend, block, erase or destroy, as may be required
to correct the inaccuracy.
(3) Where a data controller receives a request under subsection
(1), the data controller shall, within thirty days after receiving the request,
determine whether a rectification is required and—
(a) if no rectification is required, include with the personal data
concerned an annotation of the correction that was requested,
and notify the individual making the request that no
rectification was made; or
(b) if a rectification is required, make the rectification and give
notice of the rectification to—
(i)

the individual making the request; and

(ii) so far as is reasonably practicable, every person,
or other entity, to whom the personal data was
disclosed at any time during the period of twelve
months immediately before the date of the request.
(4) Upon receiving a notification under subsection (3)(b), the
person, or other entity, to whom the personal data was disclosed during
the period mentioned in that provision shall make a corresponding
rectification of such of the personal data concerned as is in that person
or entity’s possession or control.
(5) A data subject may appeal in writing to the Commissioner
against any determination made by a data controller under subsection
(3) and if the Commissioner is satisfied—
(a) as to the actions taken by the data controller under this
section, the Commissioner shall dismiss the appeal; or
(b) that the data controller erred in making a determination that
no rectification is required, or erred in the type of rectification
required to be effected, the Commissioner shall order such
rectification of the personal data as the Commissioner
considers appropriate, and the data controller shall comply
with the order.

25

(6) Where an appeal is made to the Commissioner under this
section, the Commissioner may appoint a duly qualified mediator to
enquire into the matter and make such recommendations to the
Commissioner for the resolution of the matter as the mediator considers
appropriate, and the Commissioner may act on those recommendations.
PART III—Requirements for Data Controllers
14.—(1) In this Part, “registration particulars” means the particulars
specified in section 16(2).

Interpretation
for Part III.

(2) For the purposes of this Part, so far as it relates to the
address of data controllers and data controller representatives—
(a) the address of a registered company is that of its registered
office; and
(b) the address of an entity (other than a registered company)
carrying on a business is that of the entity’s principal place of
business in Jamaica.
15.—(1) Except as provided in this section, personal data shall not
be processed by a data controller unless the registration particulars of
that data controller are included in the register maintained under section
17 (or is treated by virtue of regulations made under section 16(3) as
being so included).

Prohibition
on processing
without
registration.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to—
(a) processing; or
(b) data controllers,
of a particular description specified by the Minister, after consultation
with the Commissioner, for the purposes of this section by order
published in the Gazette and subject to affirmative resolution, being
processing which it appears to the Minister is unlikely to prejudice the
rights and freedoms of data subjects.
16.—(1) A data controller who wishes to process personal data in
circumstances in which registration is required under section 15(1) shall
ensure that the Commissioner is provided with—
(a) the registration particulars set out in subsection (2), in relation
to the data controller, and that the Commissioner is kept
informed as to any changes in those particulars;

Provision of
registration
particulars.

26

(b) a general description of the measures to be taken for the
purpose of complying with section 30; and
(c) in any case where—
(i)

personal data are being, or are intended to be,
processed in circumstances where the prohibition
imposed by section 15(1) is excluded by section
15(2); and

(ii) the particulars provided under this section do not
include the particulars in relation to those personal
data,a statement of that fact.
(2) The registration particulars are—
(a) the data controller’s name, address and other relevant contact
information;
(b) if the data controller has appointed a data controller
representative for the purposes of this Act, the name, address
and other relevant contact information of the data controller
representative;
(c) the name, address and other relevant contact information of
the data protection officer appointed under section 20;
(d) a description of the personal data being, or to be, processed
by or on behalf of the data controller and the category or
categories of data subjects to which they relate;
(e) a description of the purpose or purposes for which the
personal data are being, or are to be, processed;
(f)

a description of any recipient or recipients to whom the data
controller intends, or may wish, to disclose the personal data;

(g) the names of any States or territories outside of Jamaica to
which the data controller directly or indirectly transfers, or
intends or may wish directly or indirectly to transfer, the
personal data;
(h) where the data controller is a public authority, a statement of
that fact; and

27

(i)

such information about the data controller as may be
prescribed in regulations made under subsection (3).

(3) The information required under subsection (1) shall be
submitted to the Commissioner in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, together with such registration fee as may be prescribed,
by regulations made by the Commissioner with the approval of the
Minister.
(4) Regulations made under subsection (3) may make
provision—
(a) as to the giving of notification by partnerships or in other
cases where two or more persons are the data controllers in
respect of personal data;
(b) for any fee paid under subsection (3) or section 17(3) to be
refunded in specified circumstances;
(c) as to the form and contents of the register maintained under
section 17;
(d) as to the time as from which any entry in respect of a data
controller is to be treated as having been made;
(e) for longer or shorter periods than the period specified in
section 17(3), and different periods may be prescribed in
relation to different cases;
(f)

as to fees for supplying certified copies under section 17(4).
(5) Where personal data are processed in any case where—

(a) section 15(1) does not apply to the processing, by virtue of
the provisions of section 15(2); and
(b) the data controller has not provided the particulars specified
in subsection (2),
the data controller shall, if requested to do so in writing by any person,
make the particulars referred to in paragraph (b) available to the person
free of charge, within thirty days after receiving the request.
(6) Subsection (5) shall be subject to any exemptions made
thereto in regulations made under subsection (3).

28

(7) A data controller who contravenes subsection (5) commits
an offence and shall be liable upon conviction before a Parish Court to
a fine not exceeding one million dollars.
(8) It shall be a defence for a person charged with an offence
under subsection (7) to show that the person exercised all due diligence
to comply with subsection (5), and the standard of proof shall be on the
balance of probabilities.
Register.

17. —(1) The Commissioner shall maintain a register (hereinafter
referred to as “the Register”) of persons who have provided information
under section 16.
(2) Each entry in the Register shall consist of—
(a) the registration particulars notified under section 16(1)(a),
updated as to changes as informed pursuant to that provision;
and
(b) such other information as the Commissioner may be
authorised or required by regulations made under section
16(3) to include in the Register.
(3) A data controller shall pay such annual fee as may be
prescribed for the maintenance of the required particulars of that data
controller in the Register, and no entry in the Register shall be retained
in the Register for longer than twelve months except on payment of that
prescribed fee.
(4) The Commissioner shall—
(a) make the information contained in the Register available for
inspection by the public at all reasonable times, free of charge;
and
(b) on the payment of such fee as may be prescribed by
regulations made under section 16(3), supply any member
of the public with a duly certified copy in writing of the
particulars contained in any entry made in the Register.

Offences.

18.—(1) A data controller who processes personal data to which
section 15(1) applies, without complying with section 16, commits an
offence.

29

(2) It shall be a defence for a person charged with an offence
under subsection (1) to show that the person exercised all due diligence
to comply with section 16, and the standard of proof shall be on the
balance of probabilities.
(3) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable upon summary conviction before a Parish Court, to a fine
not exceeding two million dollars or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months.
19.—(1) This section applies to “specified processing”, being
processing of a description specified in an order made by the Minister
in accordance with section 74(3)(c), as appearing to the Minister to be
particularly likely—
(a) to cause substantial damage or substantial distress; or
(b) to otherwise significantly prejudice the rights and freedoms
of data subjects.
(2) Upon receiving any information from a data controller
under section 16(1), the Commissioner shall—
(a) consider whether any of the processing to which the
information relates is specified processing; and
(b) if so—
(i)

having regard to the information provided by the
data controller, consider whether that processing
is likely to comply with the provisions of this Act;
and

(ii) within the period of thirty days beginning on the
day on which the Commissioner received the
information, give a notice to the data controller
stating the extent to which, in the Commissioner’s
assessment, the processing is likely or unlikely to
comply with the provisions of this Act.
(3) Before the end of the period referred to in subsection
(2)(b)(ii), the Commissioner may, by reason of special circumstances,
extend that period by issuing an extension notice to the data controller—
(a) on one occasion only; and

Assessment
by Commissioner
required for
specified
processing.

30

(b) specifying the period of the extension, which shall not exceed
fourteen days.
(4) No specified processing shall be carried on by a data
controller unless the information required under section 16(1) has been
provided to the Commissioner and either—
(a) the period of thirty days, beginning on the day on which the
information is received by the Commissioner, and such further
period as is specified in an extension notice under subsection
(3) (in any case where such a notice is issued) has elapsed;
or
(b) before the end of the period or further period (as the case
may require) referred to in paragraph (a), the data controller
receives a notice from the Commissioner under subsection
(2)(b)(ii) in respect of the processing.
(5) A data controller who contravenes subsection (4) or
processes personal data other than in a manner in compliance with the
assessment made by the Commissioner in a notice under subsection
(2)(b)(ii) commits an offence and shall be liable upon—
(a) summary conviction in a Parish Court, to a fine not exceeding
five million dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years; or
(b) conviction on indictment in a Circuit Court to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.
(6) The Minister may by order published in the Gazette amend
this section by substituting a different number of days in respect of any
period or further period referred to in subsection (2)(b)(ii), (3)(b) or
(4)(a).
Appointment
of data
protection
officers.

20.—(1) A data controller falling within subsection (6) shall appoint
an appropriately qualified person to act as the data protection officer
responsible in particular for monitoring in an independent manner the
data controller’s compliance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) A person shall not be qualified to be appointed under
subsection (1) if there is or is likely to be any conflict of interest between

31

the person’s duties as data protection officer and any other duties of
that person.
(3) The functions of a data protection officer shall include—
(a) ensuring that the data controller processes personal data in
compliance with the data protection standards and in
compliance with this Act and good practice;
(b) consulting with the Commissioner to resolve any doubt about
how the provisions of this Act and any regulations made
under this Act are to be applied;
(c) ensuring that any contravention of the data protection
standards or any provisions of this Act by the data controller
is dealt with in accordance with subsection (5); and
(d) assisting data subjects in the exercise of their rights under
this Act, in relation to the data controller concerned.
(4) A data controller shall notify the Commissioner as to the
name, address and other relevant contact information of the data
protection officer appointed by the data controller under this section,
and in the event of any changes thereto.
(5) Where the data protection officer has reason to believe
that the data controller has contravened a data protection standard or
any of the provisions of this Act, the data protection officer shall—
(a) forthwith in writing notify the data controller of the contravention; and
(b) if the data protection officer is not satisfied that the data
controller has rectified the contravention within a reasonable
time after the notification, report the contravention to the
Commissioner.
(6) A data controller falls within this subsection if the data
controller—
(a) is a public authority;
(b) processes or intends to process sensitive personal data or
data relating to criminal convictions;

32

(c) processes personal data on a large scale; or
(d)

falls within a class prescribed by the Commissioner by notice
published in the Gazette as being a class of data controllers
to whom subsection (1) applies,

but a data controller who processes personal data only for the purpose
of a public register or which is a non-profit organisation established for
political, philosophical, religious or trade union purposes, does not fall
within this subsection.
PART IV—Standards for Processing Personal Data
Duty of data
controller to
comply with
standards.

21.—(1) It shall be the duty of a data controller to comply with the
data protection standards in relation to all personal data with respect to
which that data controller is the data controller.
(2) A data controller who processes personal data in
contravention of any of the data protection standards or any of the
provisions of this Part, or fails to make a report or notification required
under subsection (3) or (5), commits an offence and shall be liable
upon—
(a) summary conviction in a Parish Court to a fine not exceeding
two million dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years; or
(b) conviction on indictment in a Circuit Court, to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
(3) The data controller shall report to the Commissioner, in
such form and manner as shall be prescribed—
(a) any contravention of the data protection standards; and
(b) any security breach in respect of the data controller’s
operations which affects or may affect personal data,
within seventy-two hours after becoming aware of the contravention or
security breach (as the case may be).
(4) A report under subsection (3) shall set out—
(a) the facts surrounding the contravention or security breach;

33

(b) a description of the nature of the contravention or security
breach, including the categories, number of data subjects
concerned, and the type and number of personal data
concerned;
(c) the measures taken or proposed to be taken to mitigate or
address the possible adverse effects of the breach;
(d) the consequences of the breach; and
(e) the name, address and other relevant contact information of
its data protection officer.
(5) Where a contravention or security breach mentioned in
subsection (3) occurs, the data controller shall upon becoming aware
of, or having reason to become aware of, the contravention or breach,
notify each data subject, whose personal data is affected by the breach,
of—
(a)

the nature of the contravention or security breach;

(b) the measures taken or proposed to be taken to mitigate or
address the possible adverse effects of the breach; and
(c) the name, address and other relevant contact information of
its data protection officer,
in such form and manner, and within such time, as shall be prescribed.
(6) Upon receiving a report under subsection (4), the
Commissioner may—
(a) serve an enforcement notice under section 44 on the data
controller concerned;
(b) direct the data controller to give to any data subject
concerned such information as the Commissioner thinks fit
concerning the contravention or security breach (as the case
may be) and the measures taken, or proposed to be taken,
to address it.
(7) It shall be a defence for a person charged with an offence
under this section to show that the person exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence, and the standard of proof shall
be on the balance of probabilities.

34
The first
standard.

22.—(1) The first standard is that personal data shall be processed
fairly and lawfully and, in particular, shall not be processed unless—
(a) at least one of the conditions set out in section 23 is met; and
(b) in the case of sensitive personal data, at least one of the
conditions set out in section 24 is also met.
(2) In determining for the purposes of this section whether
personal data are processed fairly, regard shall be had to the method
by which the data are obtained, including, in particular, whether any
person from whom they are obtained is deceived or misled as to the
purpose or purposes for which they are to be processed.
(3) For the purposes of this section, personal data are deemed
to be obtained fairly if they consist of information obtained—
(a) from a person who is authorised by or under any enactment
to supply it; or
(b) from a person who is required to supply it by or under any
enactment, or by any instrument imposing an international
obligation on Jamaica; or
(c) for the purposes of determining the suitability of a person for
an honour, scholarship, prize, bursary or other award.
(4) Subject to subsection (3), for the purposes of this section
personal data are not to be treated as processed fairly unless—
(a) the personal data are obtained directly from the data subject,
or from a person authorised in writing to provide it by—
(i)

the data subject; or

(ii) the Commissioner;
(b) in the case of personal data obtained from the data subject
or a person authorised in writing by the data subject to
provide it, the data controller ensures so far as practicable
that the data subject is provided with the information specified
in subsection (6); and
(c) in any other case, the data controller ensures so far as
practicable that, before the relevant time the data subject is
provided with the information specified in subsection (6).

35

(5) In—
(a) subsection (4)(c), “the relevant time” means—
(i)

at the time when the data controller first processes
or seeks (whichever occurs first) the personal
data; and

(ii) in any case where disclosure to a third party is
envisaged, before making the disclosure;
(b) subsection (6), “identity” includes official title, habitual
residence or business address, telephone number and any
other relevant contact information.
(6) The information referred to in subsection (4) is—
(a) the identity of the data controller;
(b) the identity of its data protection officer appointed under
section 20;
(c) if the data controller has appointed a representative for the
purposes of this Act, the identity of that representative;
(d) the purpose or purposes for which the personal data are
intended to be processed;
(e) the identity of any third party to which disclosure of the
personal data is contemplated;
(f)

whether the provision, by the data subject, of the personal
data sought is compulsory under any law, and the
consequences of not providing the personal data;

(g) the legal authority for seeking the personal data, where
applicable;
(h) the expected period of retention of the personal data; and
(i)

any further information which is necessary, having regard to
the specific circumstances in which the personal data are, or
are to be, processed, to enable processing in respect of the
data subject to be fair.
(7) Subsection (4)(c) does not apply where—

(a) the recording of the information to be contained in the personal
data, or the disclosure of the personal data, by the data

36

controller is necessary for compliance with any legal obligation
to which the data controller is subject, other than an obligation
imposed by contract; or
(b) in such other circumstances as may be prescribed.
(8) Personal data which contain a general identifier falling within
a prescribed description are not to be treated as processed fairly and
lawfully unless they are processed in compliance with any conditions
prescribed in relation to the general identifier of the prescribed
description.
(9) In subsection (8), “general identifier” means any identifier
(such as a number or code used for identification purposes) which—
(a) relates to an individual; and
(b) forms part of a set of similar identifiers which is of general
application.
Conditions
for processing personal
data in
accordance
with the first
standard.

23.—(1) The conditions referred to in sections 11(3)(a) and 22(1)(a)
are that—
(a) the data subject consents to the processing and has not
withdrawn that consent;
(b) the processing is necessary—
(i)

for the performance of a contract to which the
data subject is a party; or

(ii) for the taking of steps at the request of the data
subject with a view to entering into a contract;
(c) the processing is necessary for compliance with any legal
obligation to which the data controller is subject, other than
an obligation imposed by contract;
(d) the processing is necessary in order to protect the vital
interests of the data subject;
(e) the processing is necessary—
(i)

for the administration of justice;

(ii) for the exercise of any functions conferred by or
under any enactment; or

37

(iii) for the exercise of any other functions of a public
nature exercised in the public interest;
(f)

the processing is necessary for the purposes of legitimate
interests pursued by the data controller or by any third party
to whom the personal data are disclosed, except where the
processing is unwarranted in any particular case by reason
of prejudice to the rights and freedoms or legitimate interests
of the data subject;

(g) the data subject has published the personal data concerned.
(2) Regulations made under this Act may specify particular
circumstances in which the condition set out in subsection (1)(f) is, or is
not, to be taken to be satisfied.
24.—(1) The conditions referred to in section 22(1)(b) are that—
(a) the data subject consents in writing to the processing of the
sensitive personal data;
(b) the processing is necessary for the purposes of exercising or
performing any right or obligation which is conferred, or
imposed, by law on that data controller in connection with
employment or social security benefits;
(c) the processing is necessary—
(i)

in order to protect the vital interests of the data
subject or another individual, in any case where—
(A) consent cannot be given by or on
behalf of the data subject; or
(B) the data controller cannot reasonably
be expected to obtain the consent of
the data subject,
the data controller having exhausted all reasonable
efforts to obtain that consent; or

(ii) in order to protect the vital interests of another
individual, in any case where consent by or on
behalf of the data subject has been unreasonably
withheld;

Conditions
for
processing
sensitive
personal data
in accordance
with the first
standard.

38

38

(d) the processing—
(i)

is carried out in the course of legitimate actions
by any body or association which—
(A) is not established or conducted for profit;
and
(B) exists for political, philosophical, religious
or trade-union purposes;

(ii) is carried out with appropriate safeguards for the
rights and freedoms of data subjects;
(iii) relates only to individuals who either are members
of the body or association or have regular contact
with it in connection with its purposes; and
(iv) does not involve disclosure of the personal data
to a third party without the consent of the data
subject;
(e) the information contained in the personal data has been made
public as a result of steps deliberately taken by the data
subject;
(f)

the processing—
(i)

is necessary for the purpose of, or in connection
with, any legal proceedings (including prospective
legal proceedings);

(ii) is necessary for the purpose of obtaining legal
advice; or
(iii) is otherwise necessary for the purposes of
establishing, exercising or defending legal rights;
(g) the processing is necessary for—
(i)

the administration of justice; or

(ii) the exercise of any functions conferred on any
person by or under any enactment;

39

(h) the processing—
(i)

is either—
(A) the disclosure of sensitive personal data
by a person as a member of an anti-fraud
organisation or otherwise in accordance
with any arrangements made by such an
organisation; or
(B) any other processing by a person referred
to in sub-paragraph (A) or another person
of sensitive personal data so disclosed;
and

(ii) is necessary for the purposes of preventing fraud;
(i)

the processing is necessary for medical purposes and is
undertaken by—
(i)

a health professional; or

(ii) a person who in the circumstances owes a duty
of confidentiality which is equivalent to that which
would arise if that person were a health
professional;
(j)

the processing—
(i)

is of sensitive personal data consisting of
information as to racial or ethnic origin;

(ii) is necessary for the purpose of identifying or
keeping under review the existence or absence
of equality of opportunity or treatment between
individuals of different racial or ethnic origins, with
a view to enabling such equality to be promoted
or maintained; and
(iii) is carried out with appropriate safeguards for the
rights and freedoms of data subjects;
(k) the sensitive personal data are processed in circumstances
specified in an order made by the Minister in accordance
with section 74(3)(e) for the purposes of this section.

40

(2) In this section—
“anti-fraud organisation” means any unincorporated association,
body corporate, or other person, who enables or facilitates
any sharing of information to prevent fraud, or who has any
of the aforementioned matters as one of its purposes;
“medical purposes” includes the purposes of preventative medicine,
medical diagnosis, medical research, the provision of care
and treatment and the management of healthcare services.
(3) The Minister may by order in accordance with section
74(3)(e)—
(a) exclude the application of subsection (1)(b) or (g) in such
cases as may be specified; or
(b) provide that, in such cases as may be specified, the condition
in subsection (1)(b) or (g) is not to be regarded as satisfied
unless such further conditions as may be specified in the order
are also satisfied.
(4) The Minister may, by order in accordance with section
74(3)(e), specify circumstances in which processing falling within
subsection (1)(j)(i) or (ii) is, or is not, to be taken for the purposes of
subsection (1)(j)(iii) to be carried out with appropriate safeguards for
the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
(5) The Commissioner may by order in accordance with
section 74(3)(f) specify the cases in which the conditions specified in
subsection (1) shall be deemed not to have been met regardless of
whether the consent of the data subject has been obtained.
(6) For the avoidance of doubt, a data subject may at any
time withdraw consent to the processing of any sensitive personal data
in respect of that data subject.
The second
standard.

25.—(1) The second standard is that personal data shall be obtained
only for one or more specified and lawful purposes, and shall not be
further processed in any manner incompatible with those purposes.

41

(2) The purpose or purposes for which personal data are
processed may in particular be specified—
(a) in information provided for the purposes of section 22(6);
or
(b) in particulars given to the Commissioner under section 16.
(3) In determining whether any disclosure of personal data is
compatible with the purpose for which the data were obtained, regard
shall be had to the purpose for which the personal data are intended to
be processed by any person to whom they are disclosed.
26. The third standard is that personal data shall be adequate,
relevant, and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which
they are processed.

The third
standard.

27.—(1) The fourth standard is that personal data shall be accurate
and,

The fourth
standard.

where necessary, kept up to date.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not be regarded as being contravened
by reason of any inaccuracy in personal data which accurately record
information obtained by the data controller from the data subject, or a
third party, in any case where the following requirements are met—
(a) having regard to the purpose for which the data were
obtained and further processed, the data controller has taken
reasonable steps to ensure the accuracy of the personal data;
and
(b) if the data subject has notified the data controller of the data
subject’s view that the personal data are inaccurate, the
personal data indicate that fact.
28.—(1) The fifth standard is that—
(a) personal data processed for any purpose shall not be kept
for longer than is necessary for that purpose; and
(b) the disposal of personal data by a data controller shall be in
accordance with regulations made under section 74.

The fifth
standard.

42

(2) Subsection (1)(a) is subject to the provisions under this
Act with respect to the keeping of records and the provision of access
to data.
The sixth
standard.

29.—(1) The sixth standard is that personal data shall be processed
in accordance with the rights of data subjects under this Act.
(2) A person shall be regarded as contravening the sixth
standard only if the person—
(a) contravenes section 6 by failing to supply information in
accordance with that section;
(b) contravenes section 10 by processing personal data for
purposes or direct marketing without the consent required
under subsection (1) of that section;
(c) contravenes section 11 by failing to comply with a notice
given under subsection (1) of that section to the extent that
the notice is justified, or by failing to give a written statement
under subsection (4) of that section; or
(d) contravenes section 12 by failing to comply with a notice
given under subsection (2) or (3)(b) of that section or by
failing to give the information as required under subsection
(3)(a) of that section or a written statement under subsection
(4) of that section.

The seventh
standard.

30.—(1) The seventh standard is that appropriate technical and
organisational measures shall be taken—
(a) against unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data
and against accidental loss or destruction of, or damage to,
personal data;
(b) to ensure that the Commissioner is notified, without any
undue delay, of any breach of the data controller’s security
measures which affect or may affect any personal data.
(2) Having regard to the state of technological development
and the cost of implementing any measures referred to in subsection
(1), the measures shall ensure a level of security appropriate to—
(a) the harm that might result from such unauthorised or unlawful
processing or accidental loss, destruction or damage as are
mentioned in subsection (1); and

43

(b) the nature of the data to be protected.
(3) The data controller shall take reasonable steps to ensure
that the data controller’s agents and employees who have access to
the personal data are aware of, and comply with, the relevant security
measures.
(4) Where processing of personal data is carried out by a
data processor on behalf of a data controller, the data controller shall,
in order to comply with the seventh standard—
(a) choose a data processor who provides sufficient guarantees
in respect of the technical and organisational security
measures governing the processing to be carried out and the
reporting of security breaches to the data controller; and
(b) take reasonable steps to ensure compliance with those
measures.
(5) Where processing of personal data is carried out by a
data processor on behalf of a data controller, the data controller shall
not be regarded as complying with the seventh standard unless—
(a) the processing is carried out under a contract—
(i)

which is made or evidenced in writing; and

(ii) under which the data processor is to act only on
instructions from the data controller; and
(b) the contract requires the data processor to comply with
obligations equivalent to those imposed on a data controller
by subsection (1).
(6) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the technical and
organisational measures include—
(a) pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;
(b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity,
availability and resilience of processing systems and services;
(c) the ability to restore the availability of, and access to, personal
data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical
incident;
(d) a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the
effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for
ensuring the security of the processing; and

44

(e) measures to ensure adherence to the technical and
organisational requirements specified in the other provisions
of this Act.
(7) A person who, wilfully and without lawful authority, uses
any means to breach any pseudonymisation or encryption applied to
any personal data commits an offence and shall be liable upon conviction
for that offence before—
(a) a Parish Court, to a fine not exceeding two million dollars;
or
(b) a Circuit Court, to a fine.
(8) A person does not commit an offence under subsection
(7) if—
(a) the breach is—
(i)

necessary for the prevention, detection or
investigation of crime;

(ii) required or authorised by a court or by or under
any law;
(iii) justifiable in the public interest;
(iv) justifiable for the purposes of journalism, literature
or art; or
(v) justifiable in the public interest with a view to testing
the effectiveness of the technical and organisational
measures referred to in subsection (1)(a) and the
person—
(A) acted without intending to cause, or
threaten to cause, damage or distress
to a person; and
(B) without undue delay and, where
feasible, within seventy-two hours after
the breach, notified the Commissioner,
or a data controller concerned, of the
breach; or

45

(b) the person acted in the reasonable belief that—
(i)

the person is a data subject in respect of the
personal data concerned; or

(ii) the person is the data controller in respect of the
personal data or acted with the consent of that
data controller.
31.—(1) The eighth standard is that personal data shall not be
transferred to a State or territory outside of Jamaica unless that State
or territory ensures an adequate level of protection for the rights and
freedoms of data subjects in relation to the processing of personal data.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an adequate level
of protection is one which is adequate in all the circumstances of the
case, having regard in particular to—
(a) the nature of the personal data;
(b) the State or territory of origin of the information contained
in the personal data;
(c) the State or territory of final destination of that information;
(d) the purposes for which and the period during which the
personal data are intended to be processed;
(e) the law in force in the State or territory in question;
(f)

the international obligations of that State or territory;

(g) any relevant codes of conduct or other rules which are
enforceable in that State or territory (whether generally or
by arrangement in particular cases); and
(h) any security measures taken in respect of the personal data
in that State or territory.
(3) The eighth standard does not apply to a transfer falling
within any of the cases specified in subsection (4), except in such
circumstances and to such extent as the Minister may prescribe after
consultation with the Commissioner.
(4) The cases referred to in subsection (3) are, where—
(a) the data subject consents to the transfer;

The eighth
standard.

46

(b) the transfer is necessary—
(i)

for the performance of a contract between the
data subject and the data controller; or

(ii) for the taking of steps at the request of the data
subject with a view to the data subject entering
into a contract with the data controller;
(c) the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance
of a contract, between the data controller and a person
other than the data subject, which—
(i)

is entered into at the request of the data subject;

(ii) is in the interests of the data subject;
(d) the transfer is necessary for reasons of substantial public
interest;
(e) the transfer—
(i)

is necessary for the purpose of, or in connection
with, any legal proceedings (including prospective
legal proceedings);

(ii) is necessary for the purpose of obtaining legal
advice; or
(iii) is otherwise necessary for the purpose of
establishing, exercising, or defending, legal rights;
(f)

the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests
of the data subject;

(g) the transfer is part of the personal data on a public register
and any conditions subject to which the register is open to
inspection are complied with by any person to whom the
personal data are or may be disclosed after the transfer;
(h) the transfer is made on terms (which may include contractual
terms) that are of a kind approved by the Commissioner as
ensuring adequate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of
data subjects;
(i) the transfer has been authorised by the Commissioner as
being made in such a manner as to ensure adequate safeguards
for the rights and freedoms of data subjects;

47

(j)

the transfer is necessary for the purposes of national security
or the prevention, detection or investigation of crime.

(5) The Minister may prescribe, by order published in the
Gazette—
(a) circumstances in which a transfer is to be taken for the
purposes of subsection (4)(d) to be necessary for reasons
of substantial public interest;
(b) circumstances in which a transfer which is not required by or
under an enactment is not to be taken for the purposes of
subsection (4)(d) to be necessary for reasons of substantial
public interest; and
(c) the States and territories which shall be taken to have an
adequate level of protection within the meaning of subsection
(2).
(6) For the purposes of subsection (5)(c)—
(a) a State or territory having an adequate level of protection
as described in that subsection shall be included in the order
only if such inclusion is necessary for the fulfilment of
Jamaica’s international obligations; and
(b) the order may provide for such conditions and restrictions
as may be applicable under the international obligation
concerned.
(7) Where any question arises as to whether a transfer may
be made to a State or territory, other than a State or territory included
in an order made under subsection (5)(c), the matter shall be
determined by the Commissioner, who shall issue a notice stating—
(a) the relevant public authority with responsibility for the
protection of personal data in the State or territory concerned;
(b) the Commissioner’s determination as to the adequacy of the
level of protection (within the meaning of subsection (2)) in
the State or territory concerned; and
(c) where the Commissioner determines that the level of
protection is not adequate, the extent to which the
Commissioner considers that the level of protection is not
adequate.

48

PART V—Exemptions to Data Protection Standards or to
Disclosure to Data Subject Requirements
Interpretation for
Part V.

32.—(1) Except as provided by this Part, the disclosure to data
subject requirements shall have effect notwithstanding any enactment
or rule of law prohibiting or restricting the disclosure, or authorising
the withholding, of information.
(2) References in any of the data protection standards or any
of Parts II or III to “personal data” or to the “processing of personal
data” do not include references to personal data or processing which
is exempt from that standard or Part by virtue of the provisions of this
Part.

National
security.

33.—(1) The Minister responsible for national security may issue a
certificate under subsection (2) where that Minister considers it
necessary, for the purpose of safeguarding national security, to exempt
any personal data from all or any of the provisions of—
(a) the data protection standards;
(b) Parts II, III and VI;
(c) section 61 (unlawfully obtaining, etc. personal data).
(2) A certificate mentioned in subsection (1) shall—
(a) be signed by the Minister responsible for national security;
(b) identify the personal data to which it applies, which
identification may be by means of a general description; and
(c) specify the provisions referred to in subsection (1) from
which the personal data is exempt.
(3) Personal data identified in a certificate issued under
subsection (2) shall be exempt from the provisions referred to in
subsection (1) to the extent specified in the certificate.
(4) Any person directly affected by the issuing of a certificate
under subsection (2) may appeal to the Court against the issuing of the
certificate.

49

(5) If on an appeal under subsection (4), the Court finds
that, applying the standards applied by the Court on an application
for judicial review, the Minister did not have reasonable grounds for
issuing the certificate, the Court may allow the appeal and quash the
certificate.
(6) Where in any proceedings under or by virtue of this Act
it is claimed by a data controller that a certificate issued under
subsection (2) and which identifies the personal data to which it applies
by means of a general description, applies to any specific personal
data—
(a) any other party to the proceedings may appeal to the Court
on the ground that the certificate does not apply to the
specific personal data in question; and
(b) subject to any determination by the Court under subsection
(7), the certificate shall be conclusively presumed to apply
to the specific personal data in question.
(7) On an appeal under subsection (6), the Court may
determine that the certificate does not apply to the specific personal
data in question.
(8) A document purporting to be a certificate issued under
subsection (2) shall be received in evidence and deemed to be such a
certificate unless the contrary is proved.
(9) A document which purports to be certified by or on behalf
of the Minister as a true copy of a certificate issued under subsection
(2) by that Minister, shall in any legal proceedings be evidence of that
certificate.
(10) Before acting under subsection (1), the Minister
responsible for national security shall consult with the Minister
responsible for technology.
34.—(1) Personal data processed for any of the following
purposes—
(a) the prevention, detection, or investigation of crime;
(b) the apprehension or prosecution of offenders; or

Law
enforcement,
taxation,
statutory
functions,
etc.

50

(c) the assessment or collection of any tax or duty or of any
imposition of a similar nature,
are exempt from—
(i)

the first data protection standard, except to the extent that
that standard requires compliance with the conditions set
out in sections 23(1) and 24(1); and

(ii) section 6,
to the extent to which the application of those provisions to the data is
likely to prejudice any of the purposes mentioned in paragraph (a), (b)
or (c).
(2) Personal data which—
(a) are processed for the purpose of discharging statutory
functions; and
(b) consist of information obtained for such a purpose from a
person who had the information in that person’s possession
for any purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c),
are exempt from the disclosure to data subject requirements to the
same extent as personal data processed for any of the purposes
mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c).
(3) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure
provisions in any case in which—
(a) the disclosure is for any of the purposes mentioned in
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c); and
(b) the application of the non-disclosure provisions in relation
to the disclosure is likely to prejudice any of the purposes
mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c).
(4) Personal data in respect of which the data controller is
a public authority and which—
(a) consist of a classification applied to the data subject as part
of a system of risk assessment which is operated by that
authority for either of the following purposes—
(i)

the assessment or collection of any tax or duty or
any imposition of a similar nature; or

51

(ii) the prevention, detection or investigation of crime,
or apprehension or prosecution of offenders,
where the offence concerned involves any
unlawful claim for any payment out of, or any
unlawful application of, public moneys; and
(b) are processed for either of the purposes mentioned in
paragraph (a),
are exempt from section 6 to the extent to which the exemption is
required in the interests of the operation of the system.
(5) In subsection (4), “public moneys” has the meaning assigned
to it by section 2 of the Financial Administration and Audit Act.
35.—(1) Personal data processed for the purposes of discharging
any function to which this subsection applies are exempt from the
disclosure to data subject requirements to the extent to which the
application of those requirements in any case is likely to prejudice the
proper discharge of those functions.
(2) Subsection (1) applies to any function—
(a) which is—
(i)

conferred on a person by or under any
enactment; or

(ii) of a public nature, is exercised in the public
interest and is connected with—
(A) public safety;
(B) breaches of ethics for regulated
professions; or
(C) important national economic or
financial interests such as monetary,
budgetary or taxation matters; and
(b) which is designed for protecting members of the public
against—
(i)

maladministration by public authorities;

Regulatory
activity.

52

(ii) the failure of a public authority to provide a
service which it is a function of that public
authority to provide; or
(iii) conduct by persons carrying on any trade or
business, which may adversely affect the public
interest;
(c) designed for regulating—
(i)

agreements or conduct which have as their object
or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion
of competition, in connection with any
commercial activity; or

(ii) conduct, on the part of one or more undertakings,
which amounts to the abuse of a dominant market
position; or
(d) relating to the consideration of any complaint referred to in
paragraph 12 or 13 of the First Schedule of the Child Care
and Protection Act, by the Children’s Advocate or a
relevant authority as defined by that Act.
(3) In subsection (2)(a), “regulated professions” means any
profession subject to regulation by a body pursuant to any enactment.
Journalism,
literature and
art.

36.—(1) Personal data which are processed only for the special
purposes are exempt from the provisions specified in subsection (2)
if—
(a) the processing is undertaken with a view to, or consists of,
the publication by any person of any journalistic, literary or
artistic material;
(b) the data controller reasonably believes that, having regard in
particular to the special importance of the public interest in
freedom of expression or the right to seek, receive, distribute
or disseminate information, opinions and ideas through any
media, publication would be in the public interest; and
(c) the data controller reasonably believes that, in all the
circumstances, compliance with that provision is incompatible
with the special purposes.

53

(2) The provisions referred to in subsection (1) are—
(a) the data protection standards, other than the seventh standard;
(b) section 6;
(c) section 11;
(d) section 12; and
(e) section 13(3) and (4).
(3) In considering for the purposes of subsection (1)(b)
whether the belief is a reasonable one, regard may be had to the data
controller’s compliance with any code of practice which—
(a) is relevant to the publication in question; and
(b) is designated by the Commissioner by order published in the
Gazette for the purposes of this subsection.
(4) Where at any time (“the relevant time”) in any proceedings
against a data controller under section 6(6), 11(5), 12(5) or 13(5), or
by virtue of section 69, the data controller claims, or it appears to the
Commissioner, that any personal data to which the proceedings relate
are being processed—
(a) only for the special purposes; and
(b) with a view to the publication by any person of any
journalistic, literary or artistic material which, at the time
twenty-four hours immediately before the relevant time, had
not previously been published by the data controller,
the Court shall stay the proceedings until either of the conditions specified
in subsection (5) is met.
(5) The conditions mentioned in subsection (4) are—
(a) that a determination of the Commissioner under section 50
(determination by Commissioner as to the special purposes)
with respect to the personal data in question takes effect;
or

54

(b) in a case where the proceedings were stayed on the making
of a claim, that claim is withdrawn.
(6) For the purposes of this Act, “publish”, in relation to
journalistic, literary or artistic material, means make available to the
public or any section of the public.
Research,
history and
statistics.

37.—(1) In this section—
“research purposes” includes statistical or historical purposes;
“the relevant conditions” are that the personal data—
(a) are not processed to support measures or
decisions with respect to particular individuals; and
(b) are not processed in such a way that substantial
damage or substantial distress is, or is likely to be,
caused to any data subject.
(2) For the purposes of the second data protection standard,
the further processing of personal data only for research purposes in
compliance with the relevant conditions shall not be regarded as
incompatible with the purposes for which they were obtained.
(3) Notwithstanding the fifth data protection standard,
personal data which are processed only for research purposes may
be kept indefinitely if the relevant conditions are met.
(4) Personal data which are processed only for research
purposes are exempt from section 6 if—
(a) the relevant conditions are met; and
(b) the results of the research or any resulting statistics are not
made available in a form which identifies the data subjects
or any of them.
(5) For the purposes of subsections (2) to (4), personal data
shall not be treated as processed otherwise than for research purposes
merely because the personal data are disclosed—
(a) to any person, for research purposes only;

55

(b) to the data subject or to a person acting on his behalf;
(c) at the request, or with the consent, of the data subject or a
person acting on his behalf; or
(d) in circumstances in which the person making the disclosure
has reasonable grounds for believing that the disclosure falls
within paragraph (a), (b) or (c).
(6) A data controller shall not be taken to be in breach of
the data protection standards if personal data is disclosed by that data
controller for research purposes if—
(a) the research purposes cannot reasonably be accomplished
unless the personal data are provided in a form which
identifies the data subjects or any of them;
(b) the personal data are disclosed subject to the condition
that—
(i)

it not be used for the purpose of contacting a
person to participate in research; and

(ii) the party to whom it is disclosed complies with
the data protection standards; and
(c) the relevant conditions are met.
(7) A data controller may disclose personal data for archival
or historical purposes if the relevant conditions are met and—
(a) the personal data relate to an individual who has been
deceased for thirty years or such number of years as may
be prescribed for the purposes of this section; or
(b) the personal data are in a record which has been in existence
for thirty years or such number of years as may be
prescribed for the purposes of this section.
38. Personal data consisting of information which the data controller
is obliged by or under any enactment, other than the Access to
Information Act, to make available to the public (whether by publishing

Information
available to
the public by
or under any
enactment.

56

the information, making it available for inspection, or otherwise, and
whether gratuitously or on payment of a fee) are exempt from—
(a) the disclosure to data subject requirements;
(b) the fourth data protection standard and section 13(3) and
(4); and
(c) the non-disclosure provisions.
Disclosures
required by
law or made
in connection
with legal
proceedings,
etc.

39.—(1) Personal data data are exempt from the non-disclosure
provisions where the disclosure is required by or under any enactment,
by any rule of law or by the order of a court—
(2) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure
provisions where the disclosure is necessary—
(a) for the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal
proceedings (including prospective legal proceedings); or
(b) for the purpose of obtaining legal advice, or is otherwise
necessary for the purposes of establishing, exercising or
defending legal rights.

Parliamentary
privilege.

40. Personal data are exempt from—
(a) the first data protection standard, except to the extent to
which that standard requires compliance with the conditions
set out in sections 23(1) and 24(1);
(b) the second, third, fourth and fifth data protection standards;
(c) section 6; and
(d) sections 11 and 13(3) and (4),
if the exemption is required for the purpose of avoiding an infringement
of the privileges of either House of Parliament.

Domestic
purposes.

41.—(1) Personal data processed by an individual only for the
purposes of that individual’s personal, family or household affairs
(including recreational purposes) are exempt from the data protection
standards and the provisions of Parts II and III.

Miscellaneous
exemptions.
Second
Scheudle.

42. The matters set out in the Second Schedule shall be exempt
from the provisions of this Act to the extent specified in that
Schedule.

57

43.—(1) After consultation with the Commissioner, the Minister
may by order published in the Gazette exempt, from the disclosure to
data subject requirements, personal data consisting of information the
disclosure of which is prohibited or restricted by or under any enactment,
if and to the extent that the Minister considers it necessary for the
safeguarding of the interests of the data subject or the rights and
freedoms of any other individual that the prohibition or restriction ought
to prevail over those requirements.

Power to
make further
exemptions
by order.

(2) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette,
exempt from the non-disclosure provisions any disclosures of personal
data made in circumstances specified in the order, if the Minister
considers that the exemption is necessary for the safeguarding of the
interests of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of any other
individual.
PART VI—Enforcement
44.—(1) In this Part, “enforcement notice” means a notice under
subsection (2).
(2) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that a data controller
has contravened, or is contravening, any of the data protection standards,
the Commissioner may serve the data controller with a notice in
accordance with subsections (6) to (8) requiring the data controller,
with a view to achieving compliance with the data protection standards,
to do any or all of the following—
(a) to take specified steps within a specified time, or to refrain
from taking specified steps after a specified time;
(b) to refrain from processing any personal data, or any personal
data of a specified description; or
(c) to refrain from processing personal data for a specified
purpose or in a specified manner, after a specified time,
and for the purposes of this subsection “specified” means specified in
the notice.

Enforcement
notice.

58

(3) In deciding whether to serve an enforcement notice, the
Commissioner shall consider whether the contravention has caused or
is likely to cause any individual damage or distress.
(4) An enforcement notice, relating to a contravention of the
fourth data protection standard—
(a) which requires a data controller to rectify, block, erase or
destroy any inaccurate personal data may also require the
data controller to rectify, block, erase or destroy any other
personal data held by the data controller and containing an
expression of opinion which appears to the Commissioner
to be based on the inaccurate personal data;
(b) in the case of personal data which accurately record
information received or obtained by the data controller from
the data subject or a third party, may require the data
controller either to—
(i)

rectify, block, erase or destroy any inaccurate
personal data and any other personal data held
by the data controller and containing an
expression of opinion as mentioned in paragraph
(a); or

(ii) take such steps as are specified in the notice for
securing compliance with the requirements
specified in section 27(2) and, if the
Commissioner thinks fit, for supplementing the
personal data with such statement of the true facts
relating to the matters dealt with by the personal
data as the Commissioner may approve.
(5) Where—
(a) an enforcement notice requires the data controller to rectify,
block, erase or destroy, any personal data; or

59

(b) the Commissioner is satisfied that personal data which have
been rectified, blocked, erased, or destroyed, had been
processed in contravention of any of the data protection
standards,
an enforcement notice may, if reasonably practicable, require the data
controller to notify third parties, to whom the personal data have been
disclosed, of the rectification, blocking, erasure, or destruction.
(6) For the purposes of determining whether it is reasonably
practicable to require notification of third parties under subsection (5),
regard shall be had, in particular, to the number of persons who would
have to be notified.
(7) An enforcement notice shall contain—
(a) a statement of the data protection standard or standards
which the Commissioner is satisfied have been or are being
contravened, and the Commissioner’s reasons for reaching
that conclusion; and
(b) particulars of the rights of appeal conferred by section 53.
(8) Subject to subsection (9), an enforcement notice shall not
require any of the provisions of the notice to be complied with before
the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against
the notice and, if such an appeal is brought, the notice need not be
complied with pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(9) Subsection (8) shall not apply if the Commissioner, in the
enforcement notice—
(a) includes a statement to the effect that by reason of special
circumstances the Commissioner considers that an
enforcement notice should be complied with as a matter of
urgency, together with the Commissioner’s reasons for
reaching that conclusion; and
(b) specifies a time within which the notice shall be complied
with, being not less than seven days beginning with the day
on which the notice is served.

60

(10) Regulations made under this Act may make provision as
to the effect of the service of an enforcement notice on any entry in the
register maintained under section 17.
(11) This section has effect subject to section 51(1).
(12) If the Commissioner considers that all or any of the
provisions of an enforcement notice need not be complied with in order
to ensure compliance with the data protection standards to which the
notice relates, the Commissioner may cancel or vary the notice by written
notice to the person on whom the enforcement notice was served.
(13) A person on whom an enforcement notice has been
served may, at any time after the expiration of the period during which
an appeal can be brought against that notice, apply in writing to the
Commissioner for the cancellation or variation of that notice on the
ground that, by reason of any change in circumstances, all or any of the
provisions of the notice need not be complied with in order to ensure
compliance with the data protection standards to which the notice relates.
Data
protection
impact
assessment.

45.—(1) Unless otherwise specified in a notice under subsection
(4), a data controller shall, in respect of each calendar year—
(a) within ninety days after the end of the relevant calendar year;
and
(b) in such form as may be prescribed by the Commissioner by
notice published in the Gazette,
submit to the Commissioner a data protection impact assessment in
respect of all personal data in the custody or control of the data controller.
(2) The Commissioner shall evaluate each data protection
impact assessment received under subsection (1) and shall, as the
Commissioner considers appropriate, issue such directions to the data
controller concerned—
(a) to make such amendments to the data controller’s systems
of operation or other activities; or
(b) to implement such other recommendations,
as may be necessary to secure compliance with this Act.

61

(3) The data protection impact assessment form prescribed
under subsection (1) shall require at least the following information—
(a) a detailed description of the envisaged processing of the
personal data and the purposes of the processing, specifying,
where applicable, the legitimate interest pursued by the data
controller;
(b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the
processing operations in relation to the purposes;
(c) an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms, of
data subjects, referred to in subsection (5); and
(d) the measures envisaged to address the risks, including
safeguards, security measures and mechanisms to ensure the
protection of personal data and to demonstrate compliance
with this Act, taking into account the rights and legitimate
interests of data subjects and other persons concerned.
(4) The Commissioner may publish a notice in the Gazette,
and in such other manner as the Commissioner considers appropriate
to bring the notice to the attention of data controllers, specifying the
classes or kinds of personal data, or data controllers, to which
subsection (1) shall apply or shall not apply.
(5) In determining any class or kind for the purposes of
subsection (4), the Commissioner shall have regard to the likely level
of risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects involved in
processing the data concerned, taking into account the nature, scope,
context and purposes of the processing.
46.—(1) A request may be made to the Commissioner by or on
behalf of any individual who is, or believes himself to be, directly
affected by any processing of personal data for an assessment as to
whether it is likely or unlikely that the processing has been, or is being,
carried out in compliance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), on receiving a request under
subsection (1), the Commissioner shall make an assessment in such

Request for
assessment.

62

manner as appears to the Commissioner to be appropriate, unless the
Commissioner has not been supplied with such information as the
Commissioner may reasonably require in order to be—
(a) satisfied as to the identity of the individual making the
request; and
(b) able to identify the processing in question.
(3) The matters to which the Commissioner may have regard
in determining in what manner it is appropriate to make an assessment
include—
(a) the extent to which the request appears to the Commissioner
to raise a matter of substance;
(b) any undue delay in making the request; and
(c) whether or not the individual making the request is entitled
to make an application under section 6 in respect of the
personal data in question.
(4) Where the Commissioner receives a request under
subsection (1), the Commissioner shall notify the individual who made
the request—
(a) whether the Commissioner has made an assessment as a
result of the request; and
(b) of any conclusion formed or action taken as a result of the
request, to the extent that the Commissioner considers it
appropriate having regard to any exemption from section 6
applying to the personal data concerned.
Assessment
notices.

47.—(1) The Commissioner may serve a data controller with a
notice in accordance with subsection (2) (hereinafter referred to as an
“assessment notice”) for the purpose of enabling the Commissioner to
determine whether the data controller has complied with, or is complying
with, the data protection standards.

63

(2) An assessment notice is a notice which requires the data
controller to do all or any of the following—
(a) permit the Commissioner to enter any specified premises for
the purposes mentioned in subsection (1);
(b) direct the Commissioner to any documents on the premises
that are of a specified description;
(c) assist the Commissioner to view any information of a specified
description that is capable of being viewed using equipment
on the premises;
(d) comply with any request from the Commissioner for—
(i)

a copy of any of the documents to which the
Commissioner is directed;

(ii) a copy (in such form as may be requested) of any
information which the Commissioner is assisted
to view;
(e) direct the Commissioner to any equipment or other material
on the premises which is of a specified description;
(f)

permit the Commissioner to inspect or examine any of the
documents, information, equipment or material to which the
Commissioner is directed or which the Commissioner is
assisted to view;

(g) permit the Commissioner to observe the processing of any
personal data that takes place on the premises;
(h) make available for interview by the Commissioner such
specified persons or the persons of a specified description
who process personal data on behalf of the data controller
as the Commissioner may require to be interviewed.
(3) In subsection (2), references to the Commissioner include
references to the Commissioner’s officers and staff.

64

(4) An assessment notice shall—
(a) in relation to each requirement imposed by the notice,
specify—
(i)

the time at which the requirement is to be complied
with; or

(ii) the period during which the requirement is to be
complied with; and
(b) state the rights of appeal conferred by section 53.
(5) The Commissioner may cancel an assessment notice by
written notice to the data controller on whom the assessment notice
was served.
(6) The Commissioner shall issue a code of practice as to the
manner in which the Commissioner’s functions under this section are to
be exercised, and the code shall—
(a) specify the factors to be considered in determining whether
to serve an assessment notice on a data controller;
(b) specify descriptions of documents and information that—
(i)

are not to be examined or inspected in pursuance
of an assessment notice; or

(ii) are to be examined or inspected, in pursuance of
an assessment notice, only by persons of a
description specified in the code,
and in particular as concerns documents and information
concerning an individual’s physical or mental health or the
provision of social care for an individual;
(c) describe the nature of inspections and examinations that may
be carried out in pursuance of an assessment notice; and
(d) set out the procedure for preparing, issuing and publishing
assessment reports by the Commissioner in respect of data
controllers who are served with assessment notices.

65

(7) For the purposes of—
(a) subsection (6)(b), “social care” includes all forms of
personal care and other practical assistance provided for
individuals who by reason of financial need, age, illness,
disability, pregnancy, childbirth, dependence on alcohol or
drugs, or any other similar circumstances, are in need of
such care or other assistance;
(b) subsection (6)(d), an assessment report is a report that
contains—
(i)

a determination as to whether a data controller
has complied, or is complying with, the data
protection standards;

(ii) recommendations as to any steps that the data
controller ought to take, or to refrain from taking,
to ensure compliance with any of the data
protection standards; and
(iii) such other matters as are specified in the code.
48.—(1) A time specified in an assessment notice under section
47(4) in relation to a requirement shall not fall, and a period so specified
must not begin, before the end of the period within which an appeal
can be brought against the notice, and if such an appeal is brought the
requirement need not be complied with pending the determination or
withdrawal of the appeal.
(2) If by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner
determines that it is necessary for a data controller to comply with a
requirement in an assessment notice as a matter of urgency—
(a) the Commissioner may include in the notice a statement to
that effect and a statement of the reasons for that
determination; and
(b) for the purposes of subsection (1), the time specified in the
assessment notice shall not fall, or the period so specified
must not begin, before the end of the period of seven days
beginning on the day on which the notice is served.

Limitations
on assessments
notices.

66

(3) A requirement imposed by an assessment notice does
not have effect so far as compliance with the requirement would result
in the disclosure of any communication that is subject to legal
professional privilege.
(4) Nothing in section 47 authorizes the Commissioner to
serve an assessment notice on—
(a) a member of the judiciary; or
(b) a body specified in section 5(8) of the Access to
Information Act (bodies falling within the definition of
“security or intelligence services”).
(5) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to
furnish the Commissioner with any information if the furnishing of that
information would expose that person to proceedings for an offence
by revealing evidence of the commission of that offence, other than
an offence under this Act or an offence under section 8 of the Perjury
Act (false voluntary declarations and other false statements without
oath).
Information
notices.

49.—(1) Where the Commissioner—
(a) has received a request under section 46;
(b) reasonably requires any information for the purpose of
determining whether a data controller has complied, or is
complying, with the provisions of this Act; or
(c) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that, in a case in
which proceedings have been stayed under section 36(4)
(stay of proceedings pending determination as to whether
processing is for the special purposes), the personal data
to which the proceedings relate—
(i)

are not being processed only for the special
purposes; or

(ii) are not being processed with a view to the
publication by any person of any journalistic,
literary or artistic material which has not previously
been published by the data controller,

67

the Commissioner may serve the data controller concerned with a
notice (in this Act referred to as an “information notice”) requiring the
data controller to furnish the Commissioner with the specified
information relating to the request or to compliance with the provisions
of this Act (as the case may be).
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the specified
information is information—
(a) specified, or described, in the information notice; or
(b) falling within a category which is specified, or described, in
the information notice,
and may include information about processing of personal data and
the documentation thereof, as well as information relating to the security
and confidentiality of such processing and documentation.
(3) An information notice may specify the form in which the
information shall be furnished, and shall—
(a) subject to subsection (4), specify the period within which,
or the time and place at which, the information shall be
furnished;
(b) contain—
(i)

in any case falling within subsection (l)(a), a
statement that the Commissioner has received a
request under section 46 in relation to the
processing specified in the notice;

(ii) in any case falling within subsection (l)(b), a
statement that the Commissioner regards the
specified information as relevant for the purpose
of determining whether the data controller has
complied, or is complying, with this Act and the
Commissioner’s reasons for regarding the
information as relevant for that purpose;
(iii) in any case falling within subsection (l)(c), a
statement—
(A) that the Commissioner regards the
specified information as relevant for the

68

purpose of ascertaining whether they
are being processed as mentioned in
subsection (l)(c); and
(B) of the Commissioner’s grounds for
suspecting that the personal data are
not being processed as mentioned in
subsection (l)(c);
(c) set out the particulars of the rights of appeal conferred by
section 53; and
(d) if by reason of special circumstances, the Commissioner
determines that the information is required as a matter of
urgency, include a statement to that effect together with the
Commissioner’s reasons for that determination.
(4) The period or time specified under subsection (3)(a)—
(a) in any case falling within subsection (3)(d), shall not require
the information to be furnished before the end of the period
of seven days beginning on the day on which the notice is
served;
(b) in any other case, shall not require the information to be
given before the end of the period within which an appeal
can be brought against the notice,
and if an appeal is brought against the notice, the information need
not be furnished pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(5) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to
furnish the Commissioner with any information in respect of any
communication that is subject to legal professional privilege.
(6) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to
furnish the Commissioner with any information if the furnishing of that
information would expose that person to proceedings for an offence
by revealing evidence of the commission of that offence, other than
an offence under this Act or an offence under section 8 of the Perjury
Act (false voluntary declarations and other false statements without
oath).

69

(7) Any relevant statement provided by a person in response
to a requirement under this section may not be used in evidence against
that person or on a prosecution for any offence under this Act, other
than an offence under section 52 (failure to comply with notice), unless
in the proceedings—
(a) in giving evidence, the person provides information
inconsistent with the statement; or
(b) evidence relating to the statement is adduced, or a question
relating to the statement is asked, by that person or on that
person’s behalf.
(8) In subsection (7), “relevant statement”, in relation to a
requirement under this section, means—
(a) an oral statement; or
(b) a written statement made for the purposes of the
requirement.
(9) The Commissioner may cancel an information notice by
written notice to the person on whom the information notice was
served.
(10) This section has effect subject to section 51(3).
50.—(1) Where at any time it appears to the Commissioner
(whether as a result of the service of an information notice or otherwise)
that any personal data—
(a) are not being processed only for the special purposes; or
(b) are not being processed with a view to the publication by
any person of any journalistic, literary or artistic material
which has not previously been published by the data
controller,
the Commissioner may make a determination in writing to that effect.
(2) Notice as to a determination under subsection (1) shall—
(a) be given to the data controller concerned; and
(b) contain the particulars of the right of appeal conferred by
section 53.

Determination by
Commissioner
as to the
special
purposes.

70

(3) A determination under subsection (1) shall not take effect
until the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought and,
where an appeal is brought, shall not take effect pending the
determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
Restriction
on enforcement in case
of processing
for the
special
purposes.

51.—(1) The Commissioner may not at any time serve an
enforcement notice on a data controller with respect to the processing
of personal data for the special purposes unless—
(a) a determination under section 50(1) with respect to those
personal data has taken effect; and
(b) the Court has granted leave for the notice to be served.
(2) The Court shall not grant leave for the purposes of
subsection (l)(b) unless it is satisfied—
(a) that the Commissioner has reason to suspect a contravention
of the data protection standards which is of substantial
public importance; and
(b) except where the case is one of urgency, that the data
controller has been given, in accordance with rules of court,
notice of the application for leave.
(3) The Commissioner may not serve an information notice
on a data controller with respect to the processing of personal data for
the special purposes unless a determination under section 50(1) with
respect to those personal data has taken effect.

Failure to
comply with
notice.

52.—(1) A person who fails to comply with an enforcement notice,
an assessment notice or an information notice commits an offence.
(2) A person who, in purported compliance with an information
notice or an assessment notice—
(a) makes a statement which the person knows to be false in a
material respect; or
(b) recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material
respect,
commits an offence.

71

(3) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that the person exercised all due diligence to
comply with the notice in question.
(4) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1)
or (2) shall be liable upon conviction in a Parish Court to a fine not
exceeding one million dollars.
53.—(1) A person on whom an enforcement notice, an assessment
notice, or an information notice, has been served may appeal to the
Court against the notice.

Rights of
appeal.

(2) A person on whom an enforcement notice has been served
may appeal to the Court against the refusal of an application under
section 44(13) for cancellation or variation of the notice.
(3) Where an enforcement notice, an assessment notice or
an information notice, contains a statement by the Commissioner in
accordance with section 44(9), 48(2) or 49(3)(d), then, whether or
not the person appeals against the notice, the person may appeal
against—
(a) the Commissioner’s decision to include the statement in the
notice; or
(b) the effect of the inclusion of the statement as respects any
part of the notice.
(4) A data controller in respect of whom a determination has
been made under section 50(1) may appeal to the Court against the
determination.
54.—(1) On an appeal under section 53(1)—
(a) if in any case the Court considers—
(i)

that the notice against which the appeal is
brought is not in accordance with the law; or

(ii) to the extent that the notice involved an exercise
of discretion by the Commissioner, that the
Commissioner ought to have exercised his
discretion differently,

Determination of
appeals.

72

the Court shall allow the appeal or substitute such other
notice or decision as could have been served or made by
the Commissioner; and
(b) in any other case, the Court shall dismiss the appeal.
(2) On an appeal under section 53(1), the Court may review
any determination of fact on which the notice in question was based.
(3) If on an appeal under section 53(2), the Court considers
that the enforcement notice ought to be cancelled or varied by reason
of a change in circumstances, the Court shall cancel or vary the notice.
(4) On an appeal under section 53(3), the Court may direct—
(a) that the notice in question shall have effect as if it did not
contain any such statement as is mentioned in section 53(3);
or
(b) that the inclusion of the statement shall not have effect in
relation to any part of the notice,
and may make such modifications to the notice as may be required for
giving effect to the direction.
(5) On an appeal under section 53(4), the Court may quash
the determination of the Commissioner.
Powers of
entry and
inspection.
Third
Schedule

Reports and
guidelines to
be laid before
Parliament.

55. The provisions of the Third Schedule shall have effect as to the
powers of entry and inspection under this Act.
PART VII.—Miscellaneous and General
56.—(1) The Commissioner shall lay annually before each House
of Parliament a report on the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions
under this Act.
(2) The Commissioner may from time to time lay before each
House of Parliament such other reports with respect to those functions
as the Commissioner thinks fit.
(3) Where the Commissioner prepares or approves guidelines
under section 4(5)(e), the Commissioner shall lay the guidelines before
each House of Parliament.

73

57.—(1) The Commissioner shall prepare and submit to the Minister
a code of practice (in this Act referred to as “the data-sharing code”)
which contains—
(a) practical guidance in relation to the sharing of personal data
in accordance with the requirements of this Act; and
(b) such other guidance as the Commissioner considers
appropriate to promote good practice in the sharing of
personal data.
(2) Before a code is prepared under this section, the
Commissioner shall consult such of the following as the Commissioner
considers appropriate—
(a) trade associations;
(b) persons who appear to the Commissioner to represent the
interests of data controllers.
(c) data subjects; and
(d) persons who appear to the Commissioner to represent the
interests of data subjects.
(3) In this section, a reference to the sharing of personal data
is to the disclosure of the personal data by transmission, dissemination
or otherwise making the data available.
(4) Where a data sharing code is submitted to the Minister
under subsection (1), the Minister shall—
(a) approve the code and lay the code before the Houses of
Parliament for affirmative resolution; or
(b) withhold approval of the code if it appears to the Minister
that the terms of the code could result in Jamaica being in
breach of any of its treaty obligations or any other
international obligation, and shall publish in the Gazette a
notice of the reasons for withholding approval.

Data-sharing
code.

74

(5) Where a code is not approved and affirmed under
subsection (4)(a), the Commissioner shall prepare another code of
practice in accordance with this section.
(6) A data-sharing code which is affirmed under subsection
(4)(a) comes into operation upon the publication of the code in the
Gazette, together with the affirmative resolution, unless a later date is
specified in the code as the date on which it is to come into operation,
in which case the code shall come into operation on that later date.
(7) A data-sharing code may include transitional or savings
provisions.
(8) The Commissioner shall keep the data-sharing code under
review and in any event shall review the code within eighteen months
after the code first comes into operation and thereafter at least once
every three years.
(9) Any amendment or repeal of the data-sharing code shall
be done in accordance with the procedure set out in this section for
the making of the code (including the provisions as to prior
consultation).
Effects of
data-sharing
code.

58.—(1) A failure on the part of any person to act in accordance
with any provision of the data-sharing code does not of itself render
that person liable to any legal proceedings in any court or tribunal.
(2) The data-sharing code is admissible in evidence in any
legal proceedings.
(3) If any provision of the data-sharing code appears to—
(a) a court conducting any proceedings under this Act;
(b) a court or tribunal conducting any other legal proceedings;
or
(c) the Commissioner carrying out any function under this Act,
to be relevant to any question arising in the proceedings, or in
connection with the exercise of that jurisdiction or the carrying out of
those functions, in relation to any time when the code was in force,

75

that provision of the code shall be taken into account in determining
that question.
59—(1) An individual who is an actual or prospective party to any
proceedings—
(a) under section 6(6), 11(5), 12(5), or 13(5); and
(b) which relate to personal data processed for the special
purposes,
may apply to the Commissioner for assistance in relation to those
proceedings.
(2) The Commissioner—
(a) shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after receiving an
application under subsection (1), consider the application
and decide whether and to what extent to grant the
application; and
(b) shall not grant the application unless, in the Commissioner’s
opinion, the case involves a matter of substantial public
importance.
(3) If the Commissioner decides to provide assistance under
this section, the Commissioner shall, as soon as reasonably practicable
after making the decision, notify the applicant, stating the extent of the
assistance to be provided.
(4) If the Commissioner decides not to provide assistance
under this section, the Commissioner shall, as soon as reasonably
practicable after making the decision, notify the applicant of the
Commissioner’s decision and the reasons therefor.
(5) In this section—
(a) references to “proceedings” include references to
prospective proceedings;
(b) “applicant”, in relation to assistance under this section,
means an individual who applies for assistance.

Assistance by
Commissioner in
cases
involving
processing
for the
special
purposes.

76

60. The Minister may, after consultation with the Minister
responsible for foreign affairs, make regulations as to co-operation by
the Commissioner with authorities in foreign States exercising functions
analogous to those of the Commissioner under this Act, in connection
with the performance of their respective duties and, in particular, as
to the exchange of information with such authorities.

International
co-operation.

61.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person shall not knowingly
or recklessly, without the consent of the data controller concerned—

Unlawfully
obtaining,
disclosing,
etc., personal
data

(a) obtain or disclose personal data, or any information
contained in personal data; or
(b) procure the disclosure to another person of any information
contained in personal data.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who shows
that—
(a) the obtaining, disclosing or procuring was required or
authorised by or under any enactment, by any rule of law,
or by the order of a court;
(b) the person acted in the reasonable belief that the person had
in law the right to obtain or disclose the personal data or
information or, as the case may be, to procure the disclosure
of the information to the other person;
(c) the person acted in the reasonable belief that the person
would have the consent of the data controller if the data
controller had known of the obtaining, disclosing or procuring
and the circumstances of it; or
(d) in the particular circumstances the obtaining, disclosing or
procuring was justified as being in the public interest.

,

77

(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence.
(4) A person who sells personal data commits an offence if
the person obtains the personal data in contravention of subsection (1).
(5) A person who offers to sell personal data commits an
offence if the person—
(a) obtains the personal data in contravention of subsection (1);
or
(b) subsequently obtains the personal data in contravention of
subsection (1).
(6) For the purposes of subsection (5), an advertisement
indicating that personal data are or may be for sale is an offer to sell the
personal data.
(7) Section 2(2) does not apply for the purposes of this
section.
(8) For the purposes of subsections (4) to (6), “personal data”
includes information extracted from personal data.
(9) References in this section to personal data do not include
references to personal data which by virtue of section 33 (national
security) are exempt from this section.
(10) A person who commits an offence under this section
shall be liable upon—
(a) summary conviction in a Parish Court to a fine not exceeding
five million dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years; or
(b) conviction on indictment in a Circuit Court to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.
62.—(1) The Commissioner may serve a data controller with a
fixed penalty notice if the Commissioner has reason to believe that—
(a) the data controller has committed an offence to which this
section applies;

Power of
Commissioner to
impose fixed
penalty.

78

(b) the contravention was of a kind likely to cause substantial
damage or substantial distress; and
(c) the contravention was deliberate, or the data controller knew
or ought to have known—
(i)

that there was a risk that the contravention would
occur; and

(ii) that such contravention would be of a kind likely
to cause substantial damage or substantial
distress,
but failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the
contravention.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Commissioner
may take into account any matter which comes to the Commissioner’s
attention as a result of anything done in pursuance of—
(a) an assessment notice; or
(b) an assessment under section 4(8) (assessment with consent
of data controller).
(3) The offences to which this section applies are—
(a) an offence under section 21(2) (failure of controller to comply
with standards or to make a required report or notification)
or section 16(7) (failure to provide particulars); and
(b) any other offence prescribed under subsection (11).
(4) A fixed penalty notice under this section is a notice in
writing in the prescribed form offering the data controller the opportunity
to discharge any liability to conviction of an offence to which this section
applies by payment of a fixed penalty under this section.
(5) A data controller shall not be liable to be convicted of an
offence to which this section applies, in respect of which—
(a) the data controller pays the fixed penalty in accordance with
this section; and

79

(b) the requirement in respect of which the offence was
committed is complied with,
before the expiration of the thirty days following the date of the fixed
penalty notice referred to in subsection (4) or such longer period as
may be specified in the notice, or the date on which proceedings are
begun, whichever event last occurs.
(6) Where a data controller is served with a fixed penalty
notice under this section in respect of an offence, proceedings shall not
be taken against any person for that offence until the end of the thirty
days following the date of the notice or such longer period as may have
been specified therein.
(7) In subsections (5) and (6), “proceedings” means any
criminal proceedings in respect of the act or omission constituting the
offence concerned, and “convicted” shall be construed in like manner.
(8) Payment of a fixed penalty under this section shall be paid
to the Collector of Taxes specified pursuant to subsection (11), and in
any proceedings a certificate that payment of a fixed penalty was or
was not made to the Collector of Taxes by a date specified in the
certificate shall, if the certificate purports to be signed by the Collector
of Taxes, be admissible as evidence of the facts stated therein.
(9) A notice under subsection (1) shall—
(a) give such particulars of the offence alleged as are necessary
for giving reasonable information of the allegation;
(b) state—
(i)

the period (whether thirty days or a longer period)
during which, by virtue of subsection (6)
proceedings will not be taken for the offence; and

(ii) the amount of the fixed penalty and the Collector
of Taxes to whom and the address at which it
may be paid; and
(c) require the data controller, in the event that the fixed penalty
is not paid within the period specified pursuant to paragraph

80

(b), to attend before the court having jurisdiction to try the
offence to answer the charge on such date as may be
specified, being a date not earlier than ten days after the
expiration of the period specified pursuant to paragraph (b),
and that requirement shall constitute a summons for the data
controller to attend court to answer the charge if the fixed
penalty is not paid within the period specified pursuant to
paragraph (b).
(10) In any proceedings for an offence to which this section
applies, no reference shall be made after the conviction of the accused
to the giving of any notice under this section or to the payment or nonpayment of a fixed penalty thereunder unless in the course of the
proceedings or in some document which is before the court in
connection with the proceedings, reference is made by or on behalf of
the accused to the giving of such a notice, or, as the case may be, to
such payment or non-payment.
(11) The Minister may, by order subject to affirmative
resolution, make provision as to any matter incidental to the operation
of this section, and, in particular, any such order may—
(a) prescribe—
(i)

the form of notice under subsection (1), and the
Collector of Taxes to whom a fixed penalty is
payable;

(ii) the nature of the information to be furnished to
the Collector of Taxes along with any payment;
(iii) the arrangements for the Collector of Taxes to
furnish to the Commissioner information with
regard to any payment pursuant to a notice under
this section;
(iv) the amount of the fixed penalty; and
(v) without prejudice to any offence mentioned in
subsection (3), any other offences under this Act
to which this section shall apply;

81

(b) provide that a fixed penalty notice may not be
served on a data controller with respect to the
processing of personal data for the special
purposes except in circumstances specified in the
order;
(c) make provision for the cancellation or variation
of fixed penalty notices.
63.—(1) A person concerned with the provision of goods, facilities
or services to the public or a section of the public, whether for payment
or not, shall not as a condition of providing or offering to provide any
goods, facilities or services to an individual, require that individual to
supply or produce a relevant record.

Prohibition
of requirements as to
production
of certain
records.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who shows—
(a) that the imposition of the requirement was required or
authorised by any other law or by the order of a court; or
(b) that in the particular circumstances the imposition of the
requirement was justified as being in the public interest.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall be liable upon—
(a) summary conviction in a Parish Court to a fine not exceeding
two million dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years; or
(b) conviction on indictment in a Circuit Court, to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years.
(4) In this section “a relevant record” means any record
which—
(a) has been or is to be obtained by a data subject from a data
controller specified in the first column of the Fourth Schedule
in the exercise of the right conferred by section 6 (right of
access to personal data); and

Fourth
Schedule.

82

(b) contains information relating to any matter specified in relation
to that data controller in the second column of the Fourth
Schedule,and includes a copy of such a record or part of
such a record.
(5) For the purposes of this section—
(a) a record is not a relevant record to the extent that it relates,
or is to relate, only to personal data that is recorded
information held by a public authority other than by means
which enable the data to be processed automatically, or to
be structured either by reference to individuals or criteria
relating to individuals so that specific information relating to
a particular individual is readily available;
(b) a record which states that a data controller is not processing
any personal data relating to a particular matter shall be taken
to be a record containing information relating to that matter.
(6) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette,
amend the Fourth Schedule.
Avoidance of
certain
contractual
terms
relating to
health
records.

64.—(1) This section applies to any record which—
(a) has been or is to be obtained by a data subject in the exercise
of a right conferred by section 6 (right to access personal
data); and
(b) consists of the information contained in any health record.
(2) Any term or condition of a contract is void in so far as it
purports to require an individual—
(a) to supply any other person with a record to which this section
applies, or with a copy of such record or part of such a
record; or
(b) to produce to any other person such a record, copy or part.

Disclosure of
information.

65.—(1) A person shall disclose to the Commissioner or the Appeal
Tribunal referred to in section 70, as the case may require, any

83

information required by the Commissioner or Appeal Tribunal (as the
case may be) for the discharge of functions under this Act, unless
precluded from such disclosure under any enactment or rule of law.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall be construed as requiring
an individual to disclose—
(a) anything that tends to incriminate that individual; or
(b) any information protected from disclosure by legal
professional privilege.
66.—(1) No person who is or has been the Commissioner, a member
of the Commissioner’s staff or an agent of the Commissioner shall
disclose any information which—
(a) has been obtained by, or furnished to, the Commissioner
under or for the purposes of this Act or the Access to
Information Act;
(b) relates to an identified or identifiable individual or business;
and
(c) is not at the time of the disclosure, and has not previously
been, available to the public from other sources,
unless the disclosure is made with lawful authority.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a disclosure is made
with lawful authority only if, and to the extent that—
(a) the disclosure is made with the consent of the individual or
of the person for the time being carrying on the business (as
the case may be);
(b) the information was provided for the purpose of its being
made available to the public (in whatever manner) under any
provision of this Act or the Access to Information Act;
(c) the disclosure is made for the purposes of, and is necessary
for, the discharge of—
(i)

any functions under this Act or the Access to
Information Act; or

Confidentiality of
information.

84

(ii) any of Jamaica’s obligations under an international
treaty;
(d) the disclosure is made for the purposes of any proceedings,
whether criminal or civil and whether arising under, or by
virtue of, this Act or the Access to Information Act or
otherwise; or
(e) having regard to the rights and freedoms or legitimate interests
of any individual, the disclosure is necessary in the public
interest.
(3) Any person who knowingly or recklessly discloses
information in contravention of subsection (1) commits an offence and
shall be liable upon—
(a) summary conviction in a Parish Court, to a fine not exceeding
two million dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years; or
(b) conviction on indictment in a Circuit Court to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.
Prosecutions
and penalties.

67.—(1) No proceedings for an offence under this Act shall be
instituted except—
(a) by the Director of Public Prosecutions; or
(b) by the Commissioner, with the consent of the Director of
Public Prosecutions.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the court by or before which a
person is convicted of an offence under—
(a) section 18(1) (processing without registration), 19(5)
(carrying on specified processing other than via assessment
by the Commissioner), 61 (unlawfully obtaining, etc. personal
data) or 63 (prohibition on requiring certain records); or
(b) section 52(1) (failure to comply with notice), as concerns an
enforcement notice,

85

may order that any document or other material used in connection withthe
commission of the processing of personal data and appearing to the
court to be connected with the commission of the offence to be forfeited,
destroyed or erased.
(3) A court shall not make an order under subsection (2) in
relation to any material where a person, other than the offender, claiming
to be the owner of the material, or otherwise interested in the material,
applies to be heard by the court, is given an opportunity to be heard,
and shows cause why the order should not be made.
68.—(1) Notwithstanding any other penalty specified in this Act,
where a body corporate commits an offence under this Act, the body
corporate shall be liable to a fine not exceeding four percent of the
annual gross worldwide turnover of that body corporate for the
preceding year of assessment in accordance with the Income Tax Act.
(2) In determining the quantum of any fine under subsection
(1), a court shall take into account—
(a) the estimated economic cost to consumers, users of the
services concerned and any other persons, of the
contravention giving rise to the offence;
(b) the estimated economic benefit derived by the body corporate
from the commission of the offence;
(c) the period for which the contravention continued;
(d) the number and severity of any other offences under this Act
committed by the body corporate; and
(e) any other factors which the court considers relevant.
(3) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by
a body corporate and is proved to have been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary, similar officer of the body corporate or
any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity, that director,
manager, secretary, similar officer or other person (as the case may be)
shall be liable, as well as the body corporate to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.

Liability of
body
corporate,
directors, etc.

86

(4) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (3) shall apply in relation to the acts and defaults
of a member in connection with that member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.
Liability for
damage.

69.—(1) An individual who suffers damage by reason of any
contravention by a data controller of any of the requirements of this Act
is entitled to compensation from the data controller for that damage.
(2) An individual who suffers distress by reason of any
contravention by a data controller of any of the requirements of this Act
is entitled to compensation, from the data controller, for that distress
if—
(a) the individual also suffers damage by reason of the contravention; or
(b) the contravention relates to the processing of personal data
for the special purposes.
(3) In proceedings brought against a person by virtue of this
section, it is a defence to prove that the person took all such care in all
the circumstances as was reasonably required to comply with the
requirement concerned.

Appeals.

70.—(1) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Commissioner,
other than a decision in respect of an enforcement notice, assessment
notice or information notice, may appeal to the Appeal Tribunal in
accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.

Fifth
Schedule.

(2) The provisions of the Fifth Schedule shall have effect in
respect of the constitution and functions of the Appeal Tribunal.
(3) On hearing an appeal under this section, the Appeal
Tribunal may—
(a) dismiss the appeal; or
(b) allow the appeal in whole or in part, and direct the appropriate
person or body to take any action or make any decision
which could have been taken or made (as the case may be),
by that person or body regarding the matter in respect of
which the appeal is allowed.

87

71.—(1) Any notice authorised or required by this Act to be served
on or given to any person by the Commissioner may—

Service of
notices.

(a) if that person is an individual, be served on the person—
(i)

by hand-delivering it to the person; or

(ii) by sending it to the person by registered post
addressed to the person’s usual or last-known
place of residence or business, or by leaving it for
the person at that place;
(b) if that person is a body corporate or unincorporated body,
be served on that body—
(i)

by sending it by registered post addressed to an
officer of the body at the body’s principal office;
or

(ii) by addressing it to an officer of the body and
leaving it at the body’s principal office.
(2) This section is without prejudice to any other lawful method
of serving or giving a notice.
72.—(1) This Act binds the Crown.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, each public authority shall
be treated as a person separate from any other public authority.

Application
to Crown.

(3) A public authority shall not be liable to prosecution under
this Act.
73.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section and to
section 40 (exemption relating to parliamentary privilege), this Act applies
to the processing of personal data by or on behalf of either House of
Parliament as it applies to the processing of personal data by other
persons.
(2) Where the purposes for which and the manner in which
any personal data are, or are to be, processed are determined by or on
behalf of either House of Parliament, the data controller in respect of
those personal data for the purposes of this Act shall be the Clerk to
the Houses.

Application
to
Parliament.

88
Regulations.

74.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of
giving effect to the provisions of this Act, and such regulations may—
(a) make different provision for different cases; and
(b) make such supplemental, incidental, consequential, transitional
or savings provisions as the Minister considers appropriate.
(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), regulations
made under this section may—
(a) provide additional safeguards in relation to sensitive personal
data;
(b) prescribe retention periods for personal data, to be observed
by data controllers;
(c) prescribe the fees which may be imposed under this Act;
(d) prescribe offences for the contravention of the regulations
and the penalties therefor, which penalties may exceed the
amount specified in section 29(1)(b) of the Interpretation
Act but shall not in any event exceed five million dollars; and
(e) prescribe the methods by which personal data may be
disposed of.
(3) The following instruments mentioned in this Act shall be
subject to affirmative resolution—
(a) regulations under section 2 prescribing attributes considered
to be biometric data;
(b) orders under section 11(3)(b) (order specifying additional
grounds on which processing of personal data may be
prevented);
(c) orders under section 19(1) (order describing “specified
processing” for which assessment is required);
(d) regulations under section 22(7) prescribing additional
circumstances in which a data controller is not obliged to
disclose to a data subject the information referred to in section
22(4);

89

(e) orders under section 24(1)(k), (3) or (4) (orders concerning
processing of sensitive personal data);
(f)

orders under section 24(5) specifying cases in which
conditions for processing sensitive personal data are deemed
not to be met regardless of consent of data subject;

(g) regulations mentioned in section 28, prescribing methods for
disposal of personal data;
(h) orders under section 31(5) prescribing circumstances when
transfer to another State or territory is or is not necessary in
the public interest;
(i)

orders under section 62(11)(a)(iv) or (v) varying the amount
of the fixed penalty imposed for breach of the data protection
standards or specifying other offences under this Act to which
the fixed penalty shall apply;

(j)

orders under section 63(6) amending the Fourth Schedule;

(k) orders under paragraph 6(2) of the Second Schedule
specifying the matters to be taken into account in determining
whether exemption from the disclosure to data subject
requirements is warranted.
75. The Minister may by order subject to affirmative resolution
amend any monetary penalty or fixed penalty imposed by this Act.

Amendment
of monetary
and fixed
penalties.

76.—(1) A data controller shall take all necessary measures to
ensure its full compliance with the provisions of this Act, and, in particular,
the data protection standards, on or before the expiration of a period
of two years from the earliest day appointed under section 1(1).

Transitional.

(2) No proceedings under this Act may be taken against a
data controller in respect of any processing, of personal data, done in
good faith during the period referred to in subsection (1).
(3) Personal data that is recorded information held other than
by means which enable the data to be processed automatically, or to

90

be structured either by reference to individuals or criteria relating to
individuals so that specific information relating to a particular individual
is readily available, are, until the earliest day appointed under section
1(1), exempt from—
(a) the first, second, third, fifth, seventh and eighth data protection
standards;
(b) the sixth data protection standard, except so far as that
standard relates to the rights conferred on data subjects by
sections 6 and 13;
(c) sections 10, 11 and 12;
(d) Part III;
(e) section 61 (unlawfully obtaining, etc. personal data); and
(f)

Review of
Act.

section 69 (liability for damage), except so far as it relates to
damage caused by a contravention of section 6 (rights of
access to personal data) or of the fourth data protection
standard, and to any distress which is also suffered by reason
of that contravention.

77. This Act shall be reviewed every five years from the earliest day
appointed under section 1(1).

91
FIRST SCHEDULE

(Section 4)

PART 1
The Commissioner
1.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (2), The Governor-General Appointment.
shall appoint a person having expertise in the area of information
communication technology, data protection or privacy rights, or
other like skills, to be the Information Commissioner, by instrument
under the Broad Seal after consultation with the Prime Minister
and the Leader of the Opposition.
(2) A person shall be disqualified for appointment under
sub-paragraph (1) if the person is—
(a)

a Minister, Parliamentary Secretary or member of
Parliament;

(b)

a Judge of the Parish Courts, Judge of the Supreme
Court or Judge of the Court of Appeal;

(c)

the holder of a public office within the meaning of
section 2 of the Constitution of Jamaica;

(d)

a member of a Local Authority, as defined by the Local
Governance Act;

(e)

a person who has a financial or other interest in any
enterprise or activity which is likely to affect the
discharge of the person’s functions as Commissioner;

(f)

an undischarged bankrupt; or

(g)

a person who has been convicted of any offence
involving dishonesty.

(3) The office of Commissioner, or of any staff appointed
by the Commissioner (except as provided in paragraph 4(3)) shall
not be a public office within the meaning of section 2 of the
Constitution of Jamaica.
2.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the Tenure of
Commissioner shall hold office for such term not exceeding seven office.
years as may be specified at the time of the Commissioner’s
appointment, and shall, subject to sub-paragraph (3) be eligible for
re-appointment on the expiration of that term.
(2) The Commissioner may at any time resign the office by
notice in writing transmitted to the Governor-General.

92
(3) The office of Commissioner shall become vacant—
(a)

upon the expiration of the term for which the
Commissioner is appointed;

(b)

if the Commissioner resigns or is removed from office
under sub-paragraph (6); or

(c)

if the Commissioner contravenes sub-paragraph (5) or
is appointed to any office of emolument in the public
service.

(4) The Commissioner shall in any case vacate the office
on completing fourteen years of service as Commissioner.
(5) The Commissioner shall not engage in any other
occupation for reward while holding the office.
(6) The Commissioner may be removed from the office by
the Governor-General acting on the advice of the Prime Minister
after consultation with the Leader of the Opposition, on the
grounds that the Commissioner—
(a)

has become incapable of effectively performing the
functions of Commissioner due to any infirmity of body
or mind; or

(b)

has engaged in any misconduct,or for any other cause.

(7) Where advice is given to the Governor-General pursuant
to sub-paragraph (6), the Governor-General, after consultation with
the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, shall appoint
a tribunal which shall consist of a chairperson and not less than
two other members selected from among persons who hold or
have held office as a Judge of a court having unlimited jurisdiction
in civil and criminal matters in the Commonwealth.
(8) The tribunal appointed under sub-paragraph (7) shall
enquire into the matter and report on the facts thereof to the
Governor-General and advise the Governor-General as to whether
the Commissioner ought to be removed from office in accordance
with this paragraph.
(9) The provisions of sections 8 to 16 of the Commissions
of Enquiry Act shall apply, with the necessary modifications, in
relation to a tribunal appointed under sub-paragraph (7) or, as the
context may require, to the members thereof, as they apply in relation
to Commissions or commissioners appointed under that Act.

93
(10) Where the question of removal of the Commissioner
from office has been referred to a tribunal appointed under subparagraph (7), and the tribunal has advised the Governor-General
that the Commissioner ought to be removed from office, the
Governor-General shall by instrument in writing remove the
Commissioner from office.
(11) Where the question of removal of the Commissioner
has been referred to a tribunal under sub-paragraph (7), the
Governor-General, after consultation with the Prime Minister and
the Leader of the Opposition, may suspend the Commissioner
from performing any function relating to the office, and any such
suspension may at any time be revoked by the Governor-General
and shall cease to have effect if the tribunal advises the GovernorGeneral that the Commissioner ought not to be removed from office.
(12) In this paragraph “office” means the office of
Commissioner.
3.—(1) The Commissioner shall be entitled to such emoluments Remuneration.
and be subject to such other terms and conditions of service as
may from time to time be prescribed by or under any law or by a
resolution of the House of Representatives.
(2) The emoluments and terms and conditions of service
of the Commissioner, other than allowances that are not taken into
account in computing pensions, shall not be altered to the
Commissioner’s disadvantage during the period of the
Commissioner’s appointment or reappointment, as the case may
be.
(3) The emoluments for the time being payable to the
Commissioner under this Act shall be charged on and paid out of
the Consolidated Fund.
(4) The provisions of the Appendix shall have effect with
respect to the pension and other benefits to be paid to or in respect
of a person who has held office as Commissioner.
4.—(1) The Commissioner may appoint and employ for the Appointment
purposes of this Act, at such remuneration and on such terms and of staff.
conditions as may be approved by the Committee constituted under
sub-paragraph (2)—
(a)

one Deputy Commissioner; and

(b)

such number of other officers and staff as the
Commissioner considers necessary for the purposes of
this Act.

94
(2) The Committee referred to in sub-paragraph (1) shall
consist of—
(a)

the Speaker of the House of Representatives;

(b)

the President of the Senate;

(c)

the person designated by the Prime Minister as Leader
of Government Business in the House of
Representatives;

(d)

the person designated by the Leader of the Opposition
as Leader of Opposition Business in the House of
Representatives;

(e)

the person designated by the Leader of the Opposition
as Leader of Opposition Business in the Senate; and

(f)

the Minister responsible for finance or nominee.

(3) The Governor-General may, subject to such conditions
as the Governor-General may impose, approve the appointment, to
the staff of the Commissioner, of any officer in the public service,
provided that in relation to pension, gratuity, allowance and other
rights as public officers, such officer shall be deemed to be in the
public service while so employed.
(4) The Deputy Commissioner shall perform the functions
of the Commissioner during any vacancy in that office or at any
time when the Commissioner is for any reason unable to act.
(5) Without prejudice to sub-paragraph (4), any functions
of the Commissioner may, to the extent authorised by the
Commissioner, be performed by any of the Commissioner’s officers
or staff.
Seal of the
Commissioner.

5.—(1) The application of the seal of the Commissioner shall be
authenticated by the Commissioner’s signature or by the signature
of some other person authorised for the purpose.
(2) Any document purporting to be an instrument issued
by the Commissioner and to be duly executed under the
Commissioner’s seal or to be signed by or on behalf of the
Commissioner shall be received in evidence and shall be deemed
to be such an instrument unless the contrary is shown.

Funds.

6. The funds of the office of Commissioner shall consist of fees
and other sums received by the Commissioner in the exercise of
the Commissioner’s functions, such sums as may from time to time
be placed at the disposition of the Commissioner by Parliament,
and such other sums as may lawfully be paid to the Commissioner.

95
7. No action or other proceedings for damages shall be brought Protection
against the Commissioner, or any employee or agent of the from suit.
Commissioner for any act done, or omission made, in good faith in
the performance of any functions, or the exercise of any powers,
conferred on the Commissioner by this Act.
PART II
Data Protection Oversight Committee
1.—(1) There is hereby established a Data Protection Oversight
Committee (in this Act referred to as the Committee).
(2) The objective of the Committee shall be to hold the
Information Commissioner accountable to the public in the
performance of the Commissioner’s functions under this Act.
(3) The Committee shall consist of the following persons
appointed as members by the Governor-General, upon the
recommendation of the Prime Minister after consultation with the
Leader of the Opposition—
(a)

a retired Judge of the Supreme Court;

(b)

an attorney-at-law having expertise in the area of data
protection or privacy rights;

(c)

a person representing the interests of data subjects;

(d)

a person representing the interests of data controllers;
and

(e)

three other persons having expertise in any one or more
of the following areas—
(i)

information communication technology;

(ii)

finance;

(iii)

governance and public administration.

(4) The following persons shall not be eligible to be
appointed as members of the Committee—
(a)

(b)

a member of—
(i)

either House of Parliament; or

(ii)

the Council of a Municipal Corporation, City
Municipality or Town Municipality;

a bankrupt within the meaning of the Insolvency Act;
or

96
(c)

a person who has been convicted of an offence
involving dishonesty or moral turpitude.

(5) A person shall be eligible to be appointed as a member
of the Committee if that person is a person of integrity, capable of
exercising competence, diligence, sound judgment and impartiality,
in fulfilling that person’s functions as a member of the Committee
pursuant to the provisions of this Act.
(6) Subject to sub-paragraph (7) and paragraphs 7 and 8,
a person appointed under sub-paragraph (3) shall serve as a member
of the Committee for a period of three years and is eligible to be reappointed for one further period of three years.
(7) A person shall not continue to be a member of the
Committee, and shall not be eligible to be re-appointed as a member
of the Committee if any circumstances exist which render that
person no longer eligible to be appointed as described in subparagraphs (4) and (5).
2. The functions of the Committee shall be to—
(a)

monitor and review the performance of the functions of
the Information Commissioner;

(b)

report to both Houses of Parliament on any matter
relating to the performance of the functions of the
Information Commissioner;

(c)

review the reports laid before Parliament under section
56 and make recommendations thereon to both Houses
of Parliament, in the report referred to in paragraph (b);
and

(d)

perform such other functions as may be necessary for
promoting the objective of the Committee under
paragraph 1(2).

3. The Committee—
(a)

may investigate any aspect of the operations of the
Information Commissioner, or any conduct of the
Information Commissioner, or any employee of the office
of the Information Commissioner in relation to their
functions under this Act;

(b)

is entitled to take copies of any document in relation to
any matter under investigation by the Committee;

97
(c)

may require the Information Commissioner to supply
information, or provide documents, in respect of any
matter relating to the operations of the office of the
Information Commissioner or the conduct of any
employee in relation to their functions under this Act;
and

(d)

for the purposes of an investigation under subparagraph (a), shall have the powers, protections and
immunities conferred upon a Commission under the
Commissions of Enquiry Act, and the provisions of that
Act shall apply to any person summoned by or
appearing before the Committee in the same manner as
it applies to a person summoned or appearing before a
Commission of Enquiry.

4. The Governor-General shall cause the names of the members
of the Committee, and any change in membership of the Committee,
to be published by notice in the Gazette.
5. The members of the Committee shall elect one of their number
to be the chairperson of the Committee.
6. The Committee shall appoint a secretary whose duties shall
be to—
(a)

attend the meetings of the Committee;

(b)

record minutes of the proceedings of the Committee
and keep the minutes in proper form; and

(c)

perform such other duties connected with the work of
the Committee as the Committee may require.

7. A member of the Committee shall be removed from office by
the Governor-General, on the recommendation of the Prime Minister
after consultation with the Leader of the Opposition, if that
member—
(a)

is absent, without reasonable excuse, from three
consecutive meetings of the Committee without the
leave of—
(i)

the Governor-General, in the case of the
chairperson;

(ii)

the chairperson, in the case of any member
other than the chairperson;

98
(b)

becomes incapable of satisfactorily discharging the
functions of member; or

(c)

has a mental disorder within the meaning of the Mental
Health Act.

8. A member of the Committee may resign office by giving
written notice of the resignation to—
(a)

the Governor-General, in the case of the chairperson; or

(b)

the chairperson, in the case of any member other than
the chairperson.

9. Documents made by, or decisions of, the Committee may be
signed under the hand of the chairperson, or any member of the
Committee authorised to act in that behalf.
10.—(1) The Committee shall meet as often as it considers
necessary for the proper conduct of its affairs, but shall in any
event meet not less than once per month.
(2) The chairperson, or any member elected by the
Committee to act temporarily as chairperson, shall preside at a
meeting of the Committee.
(3) A quorum of the Committee shall be four.
(4) Decisions of the Committee shall be by a majority of
votes of the members, and the chairperson shall have a casting
vote in addition to an original vote, in any case where the voting is
equal.
(5) Proper records of all proceedings of the Committee
shall be kept.
11. No action, suit, prosecution, or other proceedings, shall be
brought or instituted personally against any member of the
Committee in respect of any act done or omission made bona fide
in pursuance of the provisions of this Act.
12. A member of the Committee who has any interest, directly,
or indirectly, in any matter before the Committee shall—
(a)

as soon as possible as the relevant facts have come to
the knowledge of that member, disclose the nature of
the interest at a meeting of the Committee; and

(b)

be absent during the deliberations of the Committee,
and not take any part in its decision, with respect thereto.

99
13. There shall be paid to the Committee from the funds of the
Information Commissioner, such remuneration, whether by way of
honorarium, salary or fees, such allowances as the Minister
responsible for the public service may determine.
14. The Commissioner shall provide to the Committee such
resources as the Committee reasonably requires for the discharge
of its functions.

100
APPENDIX TO FIRST SCHEDULE

(Paragraph 3(4))

Pensions and Gratuities
Interpretation.

1. In this Appendix “pensionable emoluments” has the same
meaning as in the Pensions Act.

Entitlement
to pensions
and
gratuities.

2.—(1) Where a person holding the office of Commissioner
retires in pensionable circumstances the person shall, subject to
the provisions of this Appendix, be paid pension and gratuity in
accordance with this Act in lieu of any pension, allowance or gratuity
which the person may have been granted pursuant to the Pensions
Act.
(2) A person entitled to a pension or gratuity pursuant to
sub-paragraph (1) may, by memorandum in writing to the GovernorGeneral, elect to forgo the person’s entitlement under this Act and
be granted instead such award under the Pensions Act as would
be payable under that Act if the office of Commissioner were a
pensionable office under that Act.
(3) For the purposes of this sub-paragraph and subparagraph (4), a person retires in pensionable circumstances if the
person—
(a)

(b)

retires—
(i)

on or after completing one term of service as
Commissioner; or

(ii)

by reason of ill health prior to such completion;
or

has a minimum of seven years service.

(4) For the purposes of this Act, a person retires from the
office of Commissioner on the ground of ill health if the person—
(a)

retires on medical evidence, to the satisfaction of the
Governor-General, that the person is incapable by
reason of any infirmity of mind or body of discharging
the duties of Commissioner and that such infirmity is
likely to be permanent; or

(b)

is removed from office, in accordance with paragraph
2(6) of Part I of the First Schedule, for reason of inability
arising from infirmity of mind or body, to perform the
functions of the office of Commissioner.

101
(5) A person who, pursuant to paragraph 2(6) of Part I of
the First Schedule, is removed from the office of Commissioner for
misconduct or for any other cause other than inability arising from
infirmity of mind or body or who retired otherwise than in
pensionable circumstances may, subject to sub-paragraph (2), be
granted by the Governor-General, in lieu of any pension, allowance
or gratuity for which the person may have been eligible pursuant
to the Pensions Act such pension and gratuity—
(a)

as the Governor-General thinks fit; and

(b)

not exceeding the pension and gratuity to which the
person would have been entitled had the person retired
in pensionable circumstances from the office of
Commissioner,

and, for the purposes of sub-paragraph (6), the date of such removal
from office or retirement shall be deemed to be the date of retirement
in pensionable circumstances.
(6) Pension payable in accordance with this paragraph
shall be—
(a)

charged on and payable out of the Consolidated Fund;
and

(b)

paid monthly in arrears with effect, subject to paragraph
4, from the date of retirement in pensionable
circumstances and shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act, continue to be paid during the lifetime of the
person entitled thereto.

3. The rate of pension payable pursuant to paragraph 2 to Rate of
any person shall be an annual rate equivalent to the sum of one- pension.
half of the person’s pensionable emoluments at the date of
retirement and one-three hundred and sixtieth of such pensionable
emoluments in respect of each month of service as Commissioner.
4.—(1) Any person to whom a pension (in this paragraph Reduced
referred to as the original pension) is payable pursuant to paragraph pension and
2 may, at his option exercisable at his retirement in pensionable gratuity.
circumstances or within such period prior or subsequent to his
retirement as the Governor-General may allow, be paid, in lieu of
the original pension, a reduced pension at the rate of three-fourths
of the annual rate of the original pension together with a gratuity
(in this Act referred to as a commuted pension gratuity) equal to
twelve and one-half times one-quarter of the annual rate of the
original pension.

102
(2) The option referred to in sub-paragraph (1) shall be
irrevocable unless the Governor-General, on such terms as the
Governor-General considers reasonable, otherwise permits.
Gratuity on
death.

5.—(1) Where a person dies while holding the office of
Commissioner, there shall be paid to the person’s legal personal
representative a gratuity of an amount equivalent to—
(a)

one year’s pensionable emoluments; or

(b)

the commuted pension gratuity for which the person
had a right to opt pursuant to paragraph 4 on the
assumption that the person retired in pensionable
circumstances at the date of the person’s death,

whichever is the greater.
(2) Where a person dies while in receipt of a pension
pursuant to paragraph 2, there shall be paid to the person’s legal
personal representative a gratuity of an amount equivalent to one
year’s pensionable emoluments of that person at the date of the
person’s retirement or removal from office, from which gratuity
shall be deducted any pension or gratuity already paid to that
person under this Act or under the Pensions Act.
Pensions to
dependants in
case of
injuries
received or
disease
contracted in
discharge of
duties.

6. Where a person holding the office of Commissioner dies as
a result of injuries received—
(a)

in the actual discharge of the person’s duties;

(b)

in circumstances in which the injury is not wholly or
mainly due to or seriously aggravated by the person’s
own serious and culpable negligence or misconduct;
and

(c)

on account of circumstances specifically attributable to
the nature of the person’s duties,

while in that office, it shall be lawful for the Governor-General to
grant to the deceased officer’s widow, children, parents or other
dependants such award as would have been made under the
Pensions Act if the office of Commissioner were a pensionable
office for the purposes of that Act.
Pensions,
etc., not to
be assigned.

7. A pension or gratuity payable under this Act shall not be
assignable or transferable except for the purpose of satisfying—
(a)

a debt due to the Government; or

103
(b)

an order of any court for the payment of periodical sums
of money towards the maintenance of the spouse or
former spouse or the minor children, of the person to
whom the pension or gratuity is payable,

and shall not be liable to be attached, sequestered or levied upon,
for or in respect of any debt or claim whatever except a debt due to
the Government.
8.—(1) For the purposes of the Pensions (Public Service) Act, Family
the office of Commissioner shall be deemed to be a pensionable Benefits
pensions.
office in the service of Jamaica.
(2) Where a person dies while holding the office of
Commissioner or while entitled to a pension under paragraph 2,
there shall be paid to the person’s widow a pension at an annual
rate equivalent to one-fifth of pensionable emoluments of the
person at the date of the person’s death or, if at that date the
person was entitled to receive a pension under paragraph 2, at the
date of his retirement or, as the case may be, removal from office in
accordance with this Act.
(3) Pension payable to a widow pursuant to sub-paragraph
(2) shall—
(a)

be charged on and payable out of the Consolidated
Fund; and

(b)

be paid monthly in arrears with effect from the date of
the husband’s death and shall, subject to the provisions
of this Act, continue to be paid during the widow’s
lifetime.

(4) Pension payable to a widow pursuant to sub-paragraph
(2) shall be without prejudice to any pension to which the widow
may be entitled under the Pensions (Public Service) Act.
(5) In paragraph 6 and sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) of this
paragraph, references to a widow shall, in the case of a female
appointed Commissioner, be deemed to include references to a
widower and cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly
and similarly, references to a husband shall be deemed to include
references to a wife.
9. Where a person retires without a minimum of ten years service,
the person shall be granted in respect of that person’s service, the
commuted pension gratuity for which that person had a right to
opt pursuant to paragraph 4 if the person had retired in pensionable
circumstances.

Gratuities
where length
of service
does not
qualify for
pension.

104
SECOND SCHEDULE

(Section 42)

Miscellaneous Exemptions
Confidential
references
given by data
controller.

Jamaica
Defence
Force.

Judicial
appointments
and honours.

Public
service
employment
and
Ministerial
appointments.

Management
forecasts, etc.

1. Personal data are exempt from section 6 if they consist of a
reference given or to be given in confidence by the data controller
for the purposes of—
(a)

the education, training or employment, or prospective
education, training or employment, of the data subject;

(b)

the appointment, or prospective appointment, of the
data subject to any office; or

(c)

the provision, or prospective provision, by the data
subject of any service.

2. Personal data are exempt from the disclosure to data subject
requirements in any case to the extent to which the application of
those requirements would be likely to prejudice the combat
effectiveness of the Jamaica Defence Force.
3. Personal data processed for the purposes of—
(a)

assessing any person’s suitability for judicial office or
the office of Queen’s Counsel; or

(b)

the conferring of any honour or award under the National
Honours and Awards Act,are exempt from the disclosure
to data subject requirements.

4. The Minister may by order exempt from the disclosure to
data subject requirements personal data processed for the purposes
of assessing any individual’s suitability for—
(a)

employment to any office of emolument in the public
service; or

(b)

any office to which appointments are made by the
Governor-General or by a Minister.

5. Personal data processed for the purposes of management
forecasting or management planning to assist the data controller
in the conduct of any business or other activity are exempt from
the disclosure to data subject requirements in any case to the
extent to which the application of those provisions would be likely
to prejudice the conduct of that business or other activity.

105
6.—(1) Where personal data are processed for the purposes of, Corporate
or in connection with, a corporate finance service provided by a finance.
relevant person—
(a)

(b)

the personal data are exempt from the disclosure to data
subject requirements in any case to the extent to which
either—
(i)

the application of those provisions to the
personal data could affect the price of any
instrument which is already in existence or is
to be or may be created; or

(ii)

the data controller reasonably believes that
the application of those provisions to the
personal data could affect the price of any such
instrument; and

to the extent that the personal data are not exempt from
the disclosure to data subject requirements by virtue of
paragraph (a), they are exempt from those provisions if
the exemption is required for the purpose of
safeguarding an important economic or financial interest
of Jamaica.

(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b), the Minister
may by order specify—
(a)

matters to be taken into account in determining whether
exemption from the disclosure to data subject
requirements is required for the purpose of safeguarding
an important economic or financial interest of Jamaica;
or

(b)

circumstances in which exemption from those
requirements is, or is not, to be taken to be required for
that purpose.
(3) In this paragraph—

“corporate finance service” means a service consisting
in—
(a)

underwriting in respect of issues of, or
the placing of issues of, any instrument;

106
(b)

advice to undertakings on capital
structure, industrial strategy and related
matters and advice and service relating
to mergers and the purchase of
undertakings; or

(c)

services relating to such underwritings
as is mentioned in sub-paragraph (a);

“instrument” means—
(a)

transferable securities;

(b)

money-market instruments;

(c)

units in collective investments schemes
(as defined by the Securities Act);

(d)

options, futures, swaps, forward rate
agreements and any other derivative contracts relating to securities, currencies,
interest rates or yields, or other derivative
financial instruments, financial indices
or financial measures which may be
settled physically or in cash;

(e)

options, futures, swaps, forward rate
agreements and any other derivative
contracts relating to commodities that
must be settled in cash or may be settled
in cash at the option of one of the parties
(otherwise than by reason of a default
or other termination event);

(f)

options, futures, swaps, and any other
derivative contract relating to
commodities that can be physically
settled provided that they are traded on
a regulated market or a multilateral
trading facility;

(g)

options, futures, swaps, forwards and
any other derivative contracts relating
to commodities, that can be physically
settled not otherwise mentioned in subparagraph (f) and not being for
commercial purposes, which have the
characteristics of other derivative

107
financial instruments, having regard to
whether, inter alia, they are cleared and
settled through recognized clearing
houses or are subject to regular margin
calls;
(h)

derivative instruments for the transfer
of credit risk;

(i)

financial contracts for differences; or

(j)

options, futures, swaps, forward rate
agreements and any other derivative
contracts relating to climatic variables,
freight rates, emission allowances or
inflation rates or other official economic
statistics that must be settled in cash or
may be settled in cash at the option of
one of the parties (otherwise than by
reason of a default or other termination
event), as well as any other derivative
contracts relating to assets, rights,
obligations, indices and measures not
otherwise mentioned in this section,
which have the characteristics of other
derivative financial instru-ments, having
regard to whether, inter alia, they are
traded on a regulated market or a
multilateral trading facility, are cleared
and settled through recognized clearing
houses or are subject to regular margin
calls;

“multilateral trading facility “ means a multilateral system,
operated by an investment firm or a market operator,
which brings together multiple third-party buying
and selling interests in financial instruments in the
system and in accordance with non-discretionary
rules;
“price” includes value;
“relevant person” means a person licensed to carry on a
securities business or investment advice business
under the Securities Act.

108
Negotiations.

7. Personal data which consist of records of the intentions of
the data controller in relation to any negotiations with the data
subject are exempt from the disclosure to data subject requirements
in any case to the extent to which the application of those provisions
would be likely to prejudice those negotiations.

Examination
marks.

8. —(1) Section 6 shall have effect subject to the provisions of
sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) in the case of personal data consisting of
marks or other information processed by a data controller—
(a)

for the purpose of determining the results of an academic,
professional or other examination or of enabling the
results of any such examination to be determined; or

(b)

in consequence of the determination of any such results.

(2) Where the relevant day falls before the day on which
the results of the examination are announced, the period mentioned
in section 6(4) shall be extended until—
(a)

the end of three months beginning with the relevant
day; or

(b)

the end of forty days beginning with the date of the
announcement,

whichever is the earlier.
(3) Where by virtue of sub-paragraph (2) a period longer
than the prescribed period elapses after the relevant day before
the request is complied with, the information to be supplied
pursuant to the request shall be supplied both by reference to the
personal data in question at the time when the request is received
and (if different) by reference to the personal data as from time to
time held in the period beginning when the request is received and
ending when the request is complied with.
(4) For the purposes of this paragraph the results of an
examination shall be treated as announced when they are first
published or (if not published) when they are first made available
or communicated to the candidate in question.
(5) In this paragraph—
“examination” includes any process for determining the
knowledge, intelligence, skill or ability of a candidate
by reference to his performance in any test, work or
other activity;

109
“the prescribed period” means thirty days or such other
period as is for the time being prescribed under
section 6(4) in relation to the personal data in
question;
“relevant day”, in relation to a request under this paragraph,
means the first day on which the data controller has—
(a)

the request;

(b) if a fee is payable under section 6(2)(c) in
respect of the request, that fee; and
(c)

if further information is required under
section 8(1) in respect of the request, that
information.

9.—(1) Personal data consisting of information recorded by Examination
candidates during an academic, professional or other examination scripts, etc.
are exempt from section 6.
(2) In this paragraph, “examination” has the same meaning
as in paragraph 8.
10. Personal data are exempt from the disclosure to data subject Legal
requirements if the personal data consist of information in respect professional
privilege.
of which a claim to legal professional privilege could be maintained
in legal proceedings.
11.—(1) A person need not comply with any request or order Self-incriunder section 6 to the extent that compliance would, by revealing mination.
evidence of the commission of any offence, other than an offence
under this Act or an offence under section 8 of the Perjury Act
(false voluntary declarations and other false statements without
oath), expose the person to proceedings for that offence.
(2) Information disclosed by any person in compliance
with any request or order under section 6 shall not be admissible
against that person in proceedings for an offence under this Act.
12. Personal data consisting of any report on an inmate of a Correctional
correctional institution are exempt from section 6, where the services.
disclosure could reasonably be expected to reveal information
supplied in confidence.

110
THIRD SCHEDULE

(Section 55)

Powers of Entry and Inspection
Issue of
warrants.

1.—(1) In this schedule, “Judge” means a Judge of the Parish
Courts.
(2) If a Judge is satisfied by information on oath supplied
by the Commissioner that there are reasonable grounds for
suspecting that—
(a)

a data controller has contravened or is contravening
any of the data protection standards; or

(b)

an offence under this Act has been or is being committed,

and that evidence of the contravention or the commission of the
offence is to be found on any premises specified in the information,
the Judge may, subject to sub-paragraph (5) and paragraph 2, grant
a warrant to the Commissioner.
(3) Sub-paragraph (4) applies if a Judge is satisfied, by
information on oath supplied by the Commissioner, that a data
controller has failed to comply with a requirement imposed by an
assessment notice.
(4) Subject to sub-paragraph (5) and paragraph 2, the
Judge may, for the purpose of enabling the Commissioner to
determine whether the data controller has complied, or is complying
with, the data protection standards, grant a warrant to the
Commissioner in relation to any premises that were specified in the
assessment notice.
(5) A Judge shall not issue a warrant under this Schedule
in respect of any personal data processed for the special purposes
unless a determination by the Commissioner under section 50
(determination by Commissioner as to the special purposes) with
respect to those personal data has taken effect.
(6) A warrant issued under this Schedule shall authorise
the Commissioner or any of his officers or staff at any time within
seven days after the date of the warrant—
(a)

to enter the premises;

(b)

to search the premises;

(c)

to inspect, examine, operate and test any equipment
found on the premises and which is used, or intended
to be used, for the processing of personal data;

111
(d)

to inspect and seize any documents or other material
found on the premises and which—
(i)

in the case of a warrant issued under subparagraph (2), may be such evidence as is
mentioned in that sub-paragraph;

(ii)

in the case of a warrant issued under subparagraph (4), may enable the Commissioner
to determine whether the data controller has
complied, or is complying with the data
protection standards;

(e)

to require any person on the premises to provide an
explanation of any document or other material found on
the premises;

(f)

to require any person on the premises to provide such
other information as may reasonably be required for the
purpose of determining whether the data controller has
contravened, or is contravening, the data protection
standards.

(7) A Judge shall not issue a warrant under this Schedule
unless the Judge is satisfied that—
(a)

the Commissioner has given seven days’ notice in
writing to the occupier of the premises in question,
demanding access to the premises;

(b)

either—

(c)

(i)

access was demanded at a reasonable hour
and was unreasonably refused; or

(ii)

although entry to the premises was granted,
the occupier unreasonably refused to comply
with a request by the Commissioner or any of
the Commissioner’s officers or staff to permit
the Commissioner or the officer or member of
staff, as the case may be, to do any of the
things referred to in sub-paragraph (6); and

the occupier has, after the refusal, been notified by the
Commissioner of the application for the warrant and
has had an opportunity of being heard by the Judge on
the question whether or not the warrant should be
issued.

112
(8) In determining whether the Commissioner has given
an occupier the seven days’ notice referred to in sub-paragraph
(7)(a), any assessment notice served on the occupier is to be
disregarded.
(9) Sub-paragraph (7) shall not apply if the Judge is
satisfied that the case is one of urgency or that compliance with
that sub-paragraph would defeat the object of the entry.
(10) A Judge who issues a warrant under this Schedule
shall also issue two copies of the warrant and certify the copies
clearly as copies.
Execution of
warrants.

2.—(1) A person executing a warrant under this Schedule may
use such reasonable force as may be necessary.
(2) A warrant issued under this Schedule shall be executed
at a reasonable hour unless it appears to the person executing the
warrant that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
objects of the warrant would be defeated if the warrant were so
executed.
(3) If the person who occupies the premises in respect of
which a warrant is issued under this Schedule is—
(a)

present when the warrant is executed, the person shall
be shown the warrant and supplied with a copy of it;
and

(b)

not present when the warrant is executed, a copy of the
warrant shall be left in a prominent place on the premises.

(4) A person seizing anything in pursuance of a warrant
under this Schedule shall give a receipt for it if asked to do so.
(5) Subject to sub-paragraph (6), anything seized in
pursuance of a warrant under this Schedule may be retained for so
long as is necessary in all the circumstances, but the person in
occupation of the premises in question shall be given a copy of
any document seized, and a receipt for any other item seized, if the
person so requests and the person executing the warrant considers
that the request can be complied with without undue delay.
(6) A Judge of a Parish Court may direct the release of
anything seized under this Act if the Judge is satisfied, on the
application of the person from whom the thing is seized, that the
thing does not fall within paragraph 1(6)(d) or its retention is no
longer necessary for the purposes of that sub-paragraph.

113
3.—(1) The powers of inspection and seizure conferred by a
warrant issued under this Schedule shall not be exercisable in
respect of personal data which by virtue of section 33 (national
security) are exempt from any of the provisions of this Act.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the powers
of inspection and seizure conferred by a warrant issued under this
Schedule shall not be exercisable in respect of—
(a)

any communication between an attorney-at-law and his
client in connection with the giving of legal advice to
the client with respect to the client’s obligations,
liabilities or rights under this Act; or

(b)

any communication between an attorney-at-law and his
client, or between the attorney-at-law or the client and
any other person, made in connection with or in
contemplation of proceedings under or arising out of
this Act (including proceedings before the Court) and
for the purposes of such proceedings.
(3) Sub-paragraph (2) also applies to—

(a)

any copy, or other record, of any communication
mentioned in that sub-paragraph; and

(b)

any document or article enclosed with, or referred to, in
any such communication, if made in connection with
the giving of any advice or, as the case may be, in
connection with or in contemplation of and for the
purposes of any proceedings mentioned in that subparagraph.

(4) Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply to anything in
the possession of any person other than the attorney-at-law or his
client, or to anything held with the intention of furthering a criminal
purpose.
(5) In this paragraph, references to the client of an attorneyat-law include references to any person representing that client.
(6) If the person in occupation of any premises in respect
of which a warrant is issued under this Schedule objects to the
inspection or seizure under the warrant of any material on the
grounds that it consists partly of matters in respect of which those
powers are not exercisable, the person shall, if the person executing
the warrant so requests, furnish the person executing the warrant
with a copy of so much of the material as is not exempt from those
powers.

Matters
exempt from
inspection
and seizure.

114
Return of
warrants.

4. A warrant issued under this Schedule shall be returned to the
court from which it was issued—
(a)

after being executed; or

(b)

if not executed within the time authorised for its
execution,

and the person by whom any such warrant is executed shall make
an endorsement on it stating what powers have been exercised by
that person under the warrant.
Offences.

5. A person commits an offence if the person—
(a)

intentionally obstructs a person in the execution of a
warrant issued under this Schedule;

(b)

fails without reasonable excuse to give any person
executing a warrant issued under this Schedule such
assistance as the person executing the warrant may
reasonably require for the execution of the warrant;

(c)

makes a statement in response to a requirement under
paragraph 1(6)(e) or (f), which that person knows to be
false in a material respect; or

(d)

recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material
respect in response to such a requirement.

Vessels,
vehicles, etc.

6. In this Schedule, “premises” includes any vessel, vehicle,
aircraft or hovercraft, and references to the occupier of any premises
include references to the person in charge of the vessel, vehicle,
aircraft or hovercraft (as the case may be).

Selfincrimination.

7. An explanation given, or information provided, by a person
in response to a requirement under paragraph 1(6)(e) or (f) may
only be used in evidence against that person—
(a)

(b)

on a prosecution for an offence under—
(i)

paragraph 5; or

(ii)

section 8 of the Perjury Act (false voluntary
declarations and other false statements
without oath);

on a prosecution for any other offence where—
(i)

in giving evidence that person makes a
statement inconsistent with that explanation
or information; and

(ii)

evidence relating to that explanation or
information is adduced, or a question relating
to it is asked, by that person or on that person’s
behalf.

115

FOURTH SCHEDULE
Column 1
–––––

(Section 63)
Column 2
–––––

1.

The Commissioner of Police
or such other person as is
appointed under section
43 of the Criminal Justice
(Administration) Act.

1. Convictions.

2.

Clerks of the Circuit and
Parish Courts.

2. Returns of persons
convicted of criminal
offences, pursuant
to functions under
section 45 of the
Criminal Justice
(Ad mi nist ra tio n)
Act.

3.

The Commissioner of
Police or his designate
under section 54D of the
Criminal Justice
(Administration) Act.

3. Particulars as to
restricted persons;
and registration
certificates relating
to restricted persons.

4.

The Criminal Records
(Rehabilitation of Offenders)
Board.

4. Its functions under
section 19 of the
Criminal Justice
(Ad mi nist ra tio n)
Act.

116
FIFTH SCHEDULE

(Section 70)

Appeal Tribunal
Constitution.

1.—(1) The Appeal Tribunal shall, subject to sub-paragraph
(3), consist of five members (including the chairperson appointed
pursuant to paragraph 3), appointed by the Governor-General after
consultation with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the
Opposition.
(2) The members appointed under sub-paragraph (1), other
than the chairperson, shall be persons having expertise in the field
of data protection or privacy rights.
(3) For the hearing of any appeal under this Act the Appeal
Tribunal may consist of one member sitting alone, if the parties to
the appeal agree.

Tenure.

2. The members of the Appeal Tribunal shall, subject to the
provisions of this Schedule, hold office for a period of five years
and shall be eligible for reappointment.

Chairperson.

3. The Governor-General shall appoint to be the chairperson of
the Appeal Tribunal a retired Judge of the Supreme Court or Court
of Appeal.

Acting
appointments.

4. The Governor-General, after consultation with the Prime
Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, may appoint—

Resignation.

(a)

in the case of the absence or inability to act of the
chairperson, another retired Judge of the Supreme Court
or Court of Appeal to act in place of the chairperson; or

(b)

in the case of the absence or inability to act of any other
member of the Appeal Tribunal, any person to act in
place of that member.

5.—(1) Any member of the Appeal Tribunal other than the
chairperson may at any time resign the office by instrument in
writing addressed to the Governor-General and transmitted through
the chairperson, and from the date of receipt by the GovernorGeneral of the instrument that member shall cease to be a member
of the Appeal Tribunal.
(2) The chairperson may at any time resign the office by
instrument in writing addressed to the Governor-General, and such
resignation shall take effect as from the date of receipt by the
Governor-General of the instrument.

117
6. The Governor-General, after consultation with the Prime Revocation
Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, may terminate the o f
Appointment.
appointment of any member of the Appeal Tribunal who—
(a)

becomes of unsound mind or becomes permanently
unable to perform his functions by reason of ill health;

(b)

becomes bankrupt or compounds with, or suspends
payment to, his creditors;

(c)

is convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment
or to death;

(d)

is convicted of any offence involving dishonesty; or

(e)

fails to carry out the functions conferred or imposed on
the member by this Act.

7. If any vacancy occurs in the membership of the Appeal Filling of
Tribunal, such vacancy shall be filled by the appointment of another vacancies.
member.
8. The names of all the members of the Appeal Tribunal as first Publication
constituted, and every change in membership thereof, shall be of membership.
published in the Gazette.
9. There shall be paid to the chairperson and other members of Remunerathe Appeal Tribunal, in respect of each appeal, such remuneration tion of
(whether by way of honorarium, salary or fees) and such allowances members.
as may be determined by the Minister responsible for the public
service.
10. Subject to paragraph 1(2), the decisions of the Appeal Voting.
Tribunal shall be by a majority of votes of the members, and in
addition to an original vote, the chairperson shall have a casting
vote in any case in which the voting is equal.
11. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Appeal Tribunal Power to
regulate own
shall regulate its own proceedings.
proceedings.

12. The office of chairperson or member of the Appeal Tribunal Office not a
shall not be a public office for the purposes of Chapter V of the public office.
Constitution of Jamaica.

118
MEMORANDUM OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
A decision has been taken to enact legislation in order to secure the
confidentiality of personal data which may be in the possession of entities
(including Government authorities) and to provide for the rights of individuals
in relation to their personal data in the possession of those entities. This Bill
seeks to give effect to that decision and, among other things, establishes the
office of an Information Commissioner charged with the responsibility of
overseeing the manner in which personal data in the possession of those entities
is handled.
It should also be noted that Jamaica, as part of CARIFORUM, entered into an
Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) with the European Union on October
15, 2008. The EPA requires signatory CARIFORUM States to establish
appropriate legal and regulatory regimes, in line with existing high international
standards, with a view to ensuring an adequate level of protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data.
Responsibility for the implementation and administration of this legislation
will fall under the portfolio of the Minister responsible for information and
communications technology.
FAYVAL WILLIAMS
Minister of Science, Energy and Technology.

119

A BILL

ENTITLED

AN ACT to Protect the privacy of certain data
and for connected matters.

_______________________________________

As introduced by the Honourable Minister of Science,
Energy and Technology.

–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

PRINTED BY JAMAICA PRINTING SERVICES (1992) LTD.,

__________________________________________

–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

(GOVERNMENT PRINTERS), DUKE STREET, KINGSTON, JAMAICA.

