GUIDELINE ON CYBERSECURITY

FOR PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDERS

JULY 2019

GUIDELINE ON CYBERSECURITY FOR PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDERS
PART I PRELIMINARY
1.1 Title
1.2 Authorization
1.3 Application
1.4 Definitions
PART II STATEMENT OF POLICY
2.1 Purpose
2.2 Scope
2.3 Sources of Cyber Risk
2.4 Responsibility
2.5 Cybersecurity Program
PART III SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Governance of Payment Service Providers
3.1.1 Board of Directors
3.1.2 Senior Management
3.1.3 Chief Information Systems Officer
3.1.4 Cybersecurity Strategy, Frameworks and Policies
3.2 Risk Management
3.2.1 Risk Assessment
3.2.2 General Risk Management Requirements for Payment Service Providers
3.2.3 Dependency Risk Management
3.2.4 Incident Response and Cyber Resilience
3.2.5 Vulnerability Assessments and Penetration Testing
3.3 Additional Requirements for Systemically Important Payment Systems and System-wide
Important Payment Systems
3.4 Outsourcing
3.4.1 Outsourcing Contracts
3.4.2 Notification to CBK
3.5 Regular Independent Assessment and Testing
3.5.1 Role of Risk Management Function
3.5.2 Role of Internal Audit function
3.5.3 Role of External Audit function
3.6 Training and Awareness
4.0 Transitional Periods
PART IV REPORTING

1

ANNEXES
I. High level contents of a Cybersecurity Policy
II. Cybersecurity incident record template (Immediate)
III. Cybersecurity incident record template (Quarterly)

2

PART I: PRELIMINARY
1.1 Title – Guideline on Cybersecurity for Payment Service Providers (PSPs)
1.2 Authorization - This Guideline is issued pursuant to Section 31(2) (b) of the National
Payment System Act, 2011, which empowers the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) to issue
Directives and Guidelines to be adhered to by Payment Service Providers in order to
maintain a sound, secure and efficient National Payment System.
1.3 Application – The Guideline applies to all Payment Service Providers authorized under the
National Payment System Act, 2011.
1.4 Definitions – The acronyms and some of terms used in this Guideline are defined below:
1.4.1 ‘Business Continuity’ is a state of continued and uninterrupted operation of business.
1.4.2 ‘Business Continuity Management’ is a holistic business approach that includes
policies, standards, frameworks and procedures for ensuring that specific operations
can be maintained or recovered in a timely manner in the event of disruption. Its
purpose is to minimize the operational, financial, legal, reputational and other material
consequences arising from disruption.
1.4.3 ‘Business Continuity Plan’ is a comprehensive, documented plan of action that sets
out procedures and establishes the processes and systems necessary to continue or
restore the operation of an organization in the event of a disruption.
1.4.4 ‘CISO’ is an acronym referring to the Chief Information Security Officer. He/ She is
the senior-level executive within a PSP responsible for establishing and maintaining
the enterprise vision, strategy, and program to ensure information assets and
technologies are adequately protected.
1.4.5 ‘Critical Information Infrastructure (CII)’ refers to interconnected information
systems and networks, the disruption of which would have serious impact on the
economic well-being of customers, or on the effective functioning of payment
service providers and the economy.
1.4.6 ‘Cybersecurity Incident’ is a cyber event that:
i. jeopardizes the cyber security of an information system or the information the
system processes, stores or transmits; or
ii. violates the security policies, security procedures or acceptable use policies,
iii. whether resulting from malicious activity or not.

3

1.4.7 ‘Critical Asset’ means facilities, systems, and equipment which, if destroyed,
degraded, or otherwise rendered unavailable, would affect the reliability or
operability of an institution.
1.4.8 ‘Cyber Asset’ means programmable electronic devices and communication networks
including Hardware, Software and Data.
1.4.9 ‘Critical Cyber Asset’ means programmable electronic devices and communication
networks including Hardware, Software and Data that are essential to the reliable
operations of critical assets.
1.4.10 ‘Cybercrime’ refers to a harmful activity executed through computers, Information
Technology (IT) systems and/or the internet using a computer device as the tool to
commit the offence, and targeting the computers, IT infrastructure or internet
presence of another person or entity.
1.4.11 ‘Cybersecurity’ means preservation of confidentiality, integrity and availability of
information and/or information systems through the cyber medium. In addition, other
properties, such as authenticity, accountability, non-repudiation and reliability can
also be involved.
1.4.12 ‘Cyber risk’ is the combination of the probability of cyber incidents occurring and
their impact.
1.4.13 ‘Cyberspace’ is a global domain within the information environment consisting of
the independent network of information systems infrastructures including the
internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors
and controllers.
1.4.14 ‘Data’ means any representation of facts, information or concepts in a form suitable
for processing in a computer system, including a program suitable to cause a
computer system to perform a function.
1.4.15 ‘Designated Payment Instrument’ means any payment instrument that is of
widespread use as a means of making payment and may affect the payment systems
of Kenya and it is thus designated to protect the interest of the public or in the
interest of the integrity of the payment instrument.
1.4.16 ‘Designated Payment System’ means any system that poses systemic risk or that is
designated to protect the interest of the public or the interest of the integrity of the
payment system.

4

1.4.17 ‘Endpoint’ means a point in place and time at which payment instruction information
is exchanged between two parties in the ecosystem, such as between a messaging
network and a participant in the network, a payment system and a participant in the
system or a payment system and a messaging network. Endpoint does not relate
solely to parties at either end of a payment transaction chain, but rather participants
of wholesale payment systems or messaging networks that can transmit and receive
payment instructions on behalf of themselves and others.
1.4.18 ‘Endpoint Hardware’ may include mobile devices, laptop or desktop personal
computers (PCs) and other equipment such as servers and network devices that may
or may not be controlled directly by the operator of a payment system or messaging
network.
1.4.19 ‘External Dependency Management Strategy (EDMS)’ is the strategy which
provides for the protection and sustainment of the PSP’s services and assets that are
dependent on the actions of external actors e.g. technology vendors, suppliers, shared
public infrastructure, and other external services that supports the PSP.
1.4.20 ‘Internal Dependency Management Strategy (IDMS) is the strategy which ensures
that the PSP is able to identify and deal with cyber risks associated with its internal
business environment e.g. workforce, data, technology, facilities etc. upon which the
PSP depends to deliver services to its customers.
1.4.21 ‘IT Infrastructure’ refers to the hardware, software, network resources and services
required for the existence, operation and management of an enterprise IT
environment. It allows an organization to deliver IT solutions and services to its
employees, partners and or customers and is usually internal to an organization and
deployed within owned facilities.
1.4.22 ‘Operator’ means a person, other than a designated payment system operator,
authorized in terms of section 8 (2) (c) of the National Payment Systems Act, 2011 to
provide services to any two or more persons in respect of payment instructions.
1.4.23 ‘Participant’ means a bank or institution approved by Central Bank of Kenya to
participate in the Kenya wholesale payment system.
1.4.24 ‘Payment Service Provider (PSP)’ as defined in the National Payment Systems Act,
2011 means:
i) A person, company or organization acting as provider in relation to sending,
receiving, storing or processing of payments or the provision of other services in
relation to payment services through any electronic system;
ii) A person, company or organization which owns, possesses, operates, manages or
controls a public switched network for the provision of payment services; or
5

iii) Any other person, company or organization that processes or stores data on
behalf of such payment service providers or users of such payment services.
1.4.25 ‘Retail Payment Systems’ means a funds transfer system that typically handles a
large volume of relatively low-value payments in such forms as cheques, credit
transfers, direct debits and card payment transactions.
1.4.26 ‘Social Engineering’ is a general term for trying to deceive people into revealing
information or performing certain actions.
1.4.27 ‘Systemically Important Payment System (SIPS)’ means a funds transfer system
that typically handles large-value and high-priority payments. These are typically
Wholesale or Large Value Payment System (LVPS). A failure of these systems could
potentially endanger the operation of the whole economy. SIPS typically clear and
settle high-value, time-sensitive wholesale payments (e.g. bank-to-bank transfers). A
disruption or failure in a SIPS has the potential to pose the greatest risk to the
financial stability and economic activity, safety and soundness of the national
payment system.
1.4.28 ‘System-Wide Important Payment Systems (SWIPS)’ means retail payment
systems which are of importance to the economy as a whole due to the high volumes,
low values of transactions they process, but which are unlikely to generate or
transmit financial shocks if they fail. Such systems, however, are widely used and
have poor short-term substitutes. Disruption of SWIPS services may not lead to
financial instability but can create widespread disruptions due to the large number of
users relying on the system, thereby affecting public confidence.
1.4.29 ‘Third Party Service Provider’ means a person/entity that
(i) is not an affiliate of the PSP,
(ii) provides services to the PSP, and
(iii) maintains, processes or otherwise is permitted access to confidential
information through its provision of services to the PSP.
PART II: STATEMENT OF POLICY
2.1 Purpose
The Guidelines outline the minimum requirements that PSPs shall build upon in the development
and implementation of strategies, frameworks, policies, procedures and related activities aimed
at mitigating cyber risk. The purpose of this Guideline therefore, is to:
(i) Create a safer and more secure cyberspace that underpins information system security
priorities, to promote stability of the Kenyan payment system sub-sector;
(ii) Establish a coordinated approach to the prevention and combating of cybercrime;
6

(iii)
(iv)
(v)

(vi)

Up-scale the identification and protection of Critical Information Infrastructure (CII);
Promote compliance with appropriate technical and operational cybersecurity standards;
Guide PSPs in developing the requisite skills, continuous building of capacity and
promote a culture of fostering a strong interplay between policy, leveraging on
technology to do business and risk management; and
Help maintain public trust and confidence in the National Payment System.

2.2 Scope
This Guideline sets the minimum standards that PSPs should adopt to develop effective
cybersecurity governance and risk management frameworks. It is not a replacement for and does
not supersede the legislation, regulations and guidelines that PSPs must comply with as part of
their regulatory obligations, particularly in the areas of risk management, outsourcing,
information communication technology, internal controls and corporate governance.
2.3 Sources of Cyber Risk
Cyber-attacks launched against organizations’ information systems have placed the abuse of
cyberspace high in the domestic as well as the international agenda. Some illustrations of sources
of cybercrime activities include but are not limited to: (i) Unauthorized access to privileged accounts – A non-privileged user who gains access to a
privileged account could control the entire system. For example, hiding criminal acts by
modifying or deleting log files or disabling detection mechanisms.
(ii) People related attacks like phishing, malware introduced through social engineering that
can be utilized to gain privileged access to critical systems.
(iii) Interconnectedness of institutions could lead to compromise in the institutions’ entry
points such as through service providers.
(iv) Internal IT systems can themselves be a source of cyber risk. For example, data
replication arrangements that are meant to safeguard business continuity could transfer
malware or corrupted data to the backup systems.
(v)
Poor authentication controls to protect customer data, transactions and systems.
2.4 Responsibility
The board of directors and senior management of payment service providers are expected to
formulate and implement cybersecurity strategies, frameworks, policies and procedures, which
must be documented and made available for review by external auditors and CBK. The board of
directors is ultimately responsible for the cybersecurity of the PSP.
2.5 Cybersecurity Program
Each PSP shall maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect the confidentiality,
integrity and availability of the PSP’s Information Systems. The cybersecurity program shall be
7

based on the PSP’s risk assessment and designed to perform the following core cybersecurity
functions:
(i) Identify and assess internal and external cybersecurity risks that may threaten the security
or integrity of confidential information stored on the PSP’s information Systems;
(ii) Use defensive infrastructure and the implementation of policies and procedures to protect
the PSP’s Information Systems, and the confidential information stored on those
information systems, from unauthorized access, use or other malicious acts;
(iii) Detect cybersecurity events;
(iv) Respond to identified or detected cybersecurity events to mitigate any negative effects;
(v)
Recover from cybersecurity events and restore normal operations and services;
(vi) Implement a comprehensive testing program to assess the effectiveness of the
cybersecurity program;
(vii) Utilize cyber threat intelligence and information sharing mechanisms to understand the
cyber threat environment within which an institution is operating; and
(viii)
Fulfill applicable regulatory reporting obligations.
PART III: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Governance of PSPs
3.1.1 Board of Directors
The board members of a PSP should understand the nature of their PSP’s business and the cyber
risks to which the PSP can be exposed. Robust oversight and engagement on cyber risk matters
at the board level promotes a security risk conscious culture within the PSP. Specifically, the
responsibilities of the board in relation to cyber risk include:
(i) Oversee the cultivation and promotion of an ethical governance, management culture and
awareness. Setting “the right tone from the top” is a crucial element in fostering a robust
cyber risk management culture.
(ii) Engage management in establishing the PSP’s vision, risk appetite and overall strategic
direction with regards to cybersecurity. Cybersecurity should be incorporated as part of
the general risk assessment of the PSP. The Board shall approve the PSP’s cybersecurity
risk acceptance and risk assessment.
(iii) Allocation of adequate budget to cybersecurity activities based on the PSP’s information
systems complexity.
(iv) Assign a CISO the responsibility for reporting to the Board regularly, but not less than
once per quarter, on the PSP’s cybersecurity posture and progress in implementing the
cybersecurity strategy and goals.
(v)
Review management’s determination of whether the PSP’s cybersecurity preparedness is
aligned with its cyber risk profile. Include cybersecurity strategies in procedures and
policies of the PSP and train all employees with digital access on security policies and
procedures.
8

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)
(ix)
(x)

Establish or review cybersecurity risk ownership and the management’s accountability.
The coverage should include relevant business lines and not just the IT function. Identify
employees responsible for cybersecurity in the organization.
Approve and review on a regular basis the implementation of the PSP’s cybersecurity
program, frameworks, policies, strategies and procedures, including the adequacy of
existing mitigating controls, and ensure cybersecurity audits and infrastructure
vulnerability tests are performed. The review should be done at least once in 12 months.
Put in place adequate cybersecurity monitoring structures with an escalation matrix to
senior management with accountability of the Board.
Review the results of management’s ongoing monitoring of the PSP’s exposure to and
preparedness for cyber threats and implementation of user security awareness programs.
Ensure that the Board has members with appropriate skills and knowledge to understand
risks posed by cyber threats and ensure those skills remain current and the Board is kept
abreast of cybersecurity developments.

3.1.2 Senior Management
Senior Management of a PSP is responsible for implementing the PSP’s business strategy in line
with its risk appetite, while being cognizant of cyber threats. As such, the senior management
should:
(i) Implement the board approved cybersecurity strategy, policy and framework.
(ii) Understand cyber organizational scope as well as identify cyber threats, critical business
processes and assets.
(iii) Ensure the creation of mitigation and recovery procedures to contain cyber risk incidents,
reduce losses and return operations to normal.
(iv) Continuously improve collection, analysis, and reporting of cybercrime information. This
can be achieved through understanding the business environment the PSP operates in,
potential cyber risk points and referring to international best practices.
(v)
Oversee deployment of strong authentication measures to protect customer data,
transactions and systems.
(vi) Ensure the provision of sufficient number of skilled staff for the management of
cybersecurity, who should be subjected to enhanced background and competency checks.
(vii) Incorporate cybersecurity as an agenda in senior management meetings and provide
regular reports of the PSP’s cybersecurity posture to the board.
(viii)
Document a cybersecurity incident response plan providing a roadmap for the actions the
PSP will take during and after a security incident. The plan should address inter-alia:
a) The roles and responsibilities of staff;
b) Incident detection and assessment, reporting; and
c) Escalation and strategies deployed.
(ix) Create a post incident analysis framework to determine corrective actions to prevent
similar incidents in the future.
(x) Oversee the evaluation and management of risks introduced by third party service
providers to the PSP.
9

(xi)

The role of senior management should extend to include:
a) Ensuring that cybersecurity processes are conducted in line with business
requirements, applicable laws and regulations.
b) When a PSP or its agent becomes aware of cybersecurity incident involving a
potential or actual data breach either in any of its systems or environments or in the
systems or environments of its agent(s), the PSP must take (or cause the agent to take)
the following actions:
 Immediately commence a thorough investigation into the data breach or
potential data breach.
 Immediately, or within a reasonable time, identify, contain, and mitigate the data
breach or potential data breach.

3.1.3 Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
(i)

As cyber-attacks evolve, one of the modern strategic measures globally accepted and
acknowledged is the introduction of the role of the CISO. This role is aimed at creating
an organizational culture of shared cybersecurity ownership. All PSPs are required to
have a CISO.

(ii)

The PSP should determine the best reporting option of the CISO depending on factors
such as the PSP’s vision and strategic goals, culture, management style, security maturity,
IT maturity, risk appetite and all relevant dynamics involving the current security posture
and reporting lines. The CISO could report to either the Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
Chief Information Officer (CIO), Chief Operating Officer (COO) or Risk Function.
Where a CISO reports to the CIO, the institution should ensure that there are
compensating controls to ensure the CISO’s independence and prevent conflict of
interest. Such controls should include:
a) Regular, independent reporting to the board of directors on the institution’s
cybersecurity posture.
b) Independent budget approved by the board of directors.

(iii)

The CISO is responsible for:
a) Developing and implementing the PSP’s cybersecurity program and enforcing the
cybersecurity policy.
b) Ensuring that the PSP maintains a current and comprehensive cyber asset and user
register.
c) Ensuring that the PSP’s cybersecurity strategy addresses the needs of the PSP, taking
into account the overall business strategies, risk appetite and ICT risk management
policies of the PSP.
d) Design cybersecurity controls with the consideration of users at all levels of the
organization, including internal (i.e. management and staff) and external users (i.e.
contractors/consultants, business partners and service providers).
10

e) Organizing professional cyber related trainings to improve technical proficiency of
staff and user awareness trainings for improved cyber hygiene.
f) Ensure that adequate processes are in place for monitoring IT systems to detect
cybersecurity events and incidents in a timely manner.
g) Reporting to the CEO on an agreed interval but not less than once per quarter on the
following:
 Assessment of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information
systems in the PSPs.
 Detailed exceptions to the approved cybersecurity policies and procedures.
 Assessment of the effectiveness of the approved cybersecurity program.
 All material cybersecurity events that affected the PSP during the period.
h) Reporting to the Board on an agreed interval but not less than once per quarter on the
PSP’s capability to manage cybersecurity and progress in implementation of the
cybersecurity strategy and goals.
i) Ensure timely update of the incident response mechanism and Business Continuity
Plan (BCP) based on the latest cyber threat intelligence gathered.
j) Incorporate the utilization of scenario analysis to consider a material cyber-attack,
mitigating actions, and identify potential control gaps.
k) Ensure adequate backups of critical IT systems and data in line with predetermined
recovery objectives (e.g. real time back up of changes made to critical data) are
carried out to a site that is unlikely to be affected by a disaster event at the main
processing site.
l) Ensure the roles and responsibilities of managing cyber risks, including in emergency
or crisis decision-making, are clearly defined, documented and communicated to
relevant staff.
m) Put in place BCP and disaster recovery test plans to ensure that the PSP can continue
to function and meet its regulatory obligations in the event of an unforeseen attack
through cyber-crime.
n) Assessing the overall effectiveness of the PSP’s cybersecurity program.
o) Periodically reporting on the organization’s cybersecurity posture to senior
management, board and audit committee.
(iv)

Where a PSP seeks to use a third party provider to perform the responsibilities outlined in
Clause 3.1.3 (c), the PSP should only consider outsourcing operational security functions
such as information security monitoring, testing and threat intelligence. A PSP may not
outsource governance, oversight and management functions of the CISO. Where a PSP
seeks to use a third party service provider to support the CISO operational security
functions, the PSP shall seek prior approval of CBK. In such a case, the PSP shall:
a) retain responsibility for compliance with this clause;
b) designate a senior member of the PSP’s personnel responsible for direction and
oversight of the third party service provider; and
c) require the third party service provider to maintain a cybersecurity program that
protects the PSP in accordance with the requirements of this clause.
11

3.1.4 Cybersecurity Strategy, Frameworks and Policies
Each PSP shall implement and maintain a written policy or policies, approved by the PSP’s
board of directors (or an appropriate committee thereof) or equivalent governing body, setting
forth the PSP’s policies and procedures for the protection of its information systems and
confidential information stored on those Information Systems. The cybersecurity policy shall be
based on the PSP’s risk assessment and address the following areas to the extent applicable to the
PSP’s operations:
(i) Information security.
(ii) Data governance and classification.
(iii) Asset inventory and device management.
(iv) Access controls and identity management.
(v)
Business continuity and disaster recovery planning and resources.
(vi) Systems operations concerns.
(vii) Systems and network security.
(viii)
Systems and network monitoring.
(ix) Systems and application development and quality assurance.
(x) Physical security and environmental controls.
(xi) Customer data privacy.
(xii) Vendor and third party service provider management.
(xiii) Risk assessment.
(xiv) Incident response.
3.2 Risk Management
3.2.1 Risk Assessment
Each PSP shall conduct a periodic risk assessment of the PSP’s information systems sufficient to
inform the design of the cybersecurity program as required by this clause. Such risk assessment
shall be updated as reasonably necessary, but not less than once a year, to address changes to the
PSP’s information systems, confidential information or business operations.
The PSP’s risk assessment shall allow, among others, for the identification of critical cyber
assets and revision of controls to respond to technological developments and evolving threats.
The assessment shall consider the particular risks of the PSP’s business operations related to
cybersecurity, confidential information collected or stored, information systems utilized and the
availability and effectiveness of controls to protect confidential information and information
systems.
The board of directors shall be required to approve the risk assessment and risk acceptance. The
risk assessment shall be carried out in accordance with written policies and procedures and shall
be documented. Such policies and procedures shall include:
12

(i)
(ii)

(iii)

criteria for the evaluation and categorization of identified cybersecurity risks or threats
facing the PSP;
criteria for the assessment of the confidentiality, integrity, security and availability of the
PSP’s information systems and confidential information, including the adequacy of
existing controls in the context of identified risks; and
requirements describing how identified risks will be mitigated or accepted based on the
risk assessment and how the cybersecurity program will address the risks.

3.2.2 General Risk Management Requirements for PSPs
A PSP should establish a robust operational risk-management framework with appropriate
systems, policies, procedures and controls to identify, monitor and manage operational risks.
(i) A PSP’s management should clearly define the roles and responsibilities for addressing
operational risk and should endorse the PSP’s operational risk-management framework
(ii) Systems, operational policies, procedures and controls should be reviewed, audited and
tested annually for critical cyber assets and once every two years for other assets and
after significant changes.
(iii) A PSP should have clearly defined operational reliability objectives and should have
policies in place that are designed to achieve those objectives.
(iv) A PSP system should have comprehensive physical and information security policies that
address all major vulnerabilities and threats.
(v)
A PSP should have a business continuity plan that addresses events posing a significant
risk of disrupting operations. The plan should be designed to protect end users’
information and payment data and to enable recovery of accurate data following an
incident. The plan should also seek to mitigate the impact on end users following a
disruption by having a plan to return to normal operations.
(vi) A PSP should identify, monitor, and manage the risks that end users, participants, other
PSPs, service and utility providers might pose to its operations.
(vii) In addition, a PSP should identify, monitor, and manage the risks that its operations
might pose to others.
(viii)
A PSP should strive to ensure compliance to international standards and best practices
relating to account data compromise, breaches and cyber threats.
3.2.3 Dependency Risk Management
The understanding of the cyber threat landscape for the PSP requires a collaborative approach
between its internal and external stakeholders. Proper understanding of the cyber threat
landscape will therefore require the implementation of risk management strategies in the areas
highlighted hereunder:

13

a) Internal Dependency Management
The PSP should have an explicit Internal Dependency Management Strategy (IDMS) integrated
into the overall strategic and cyber risk management plan. This requires that the PSP has:
(i) Effective capabilities to identify and manage cyber risks associated with its business
assets throughout their lifespans and to continually assess and improve as necessary, their
ability to reduce the cyber risks associated with internal dependencies on an enterprisewide basis.
(ii) A current and complete awareness of all internal assets and business functions that
support the PSP’s cyber risk management strategy.
(iii) An inventory of all business assets on an enterprise-wide basis, prioritized by their
criticality to the business functions they support, the firm’s mission and the financial
sector.
(iv) The ability to track connections among assets and cyber risk levels throughout assets’ life
cycles using relevant data and analysis across the firm.
(v)
Appropriate controls to address inherent cyber risk in the firm’s assets, taking into
account prioritization of the PSP’s assets and the cyber risks they pose to the firm.
b) External Dependency Management
The PSP should have an explicit External Dependency Management Strategy (EDMS) which is
integrated into the overall strategic and cyber risk management plan. This requires that the PSP
has among other things:
(i) Effective capabilities in place to identify and manage cyber risks associated with external
dependencies and interconnection risks throughout such relationships, and continually
assess and improve as necessary, their effectiveness in reducing cyber risks associated
with external dependencies and interconnection risks enterprise-wide;
(ii) The ability to monitor in real time all external dependencies and trusted connections that
support the PSP’s cyber risk management strategy;
(iii) A current, accurate and complete awareness of all external dependencies and trusted
connections enterprise-wide, prioritized based on their criticality to the business functions
they support, including mappings to supported assets and business function;
(iv) The ability to monitor the universe of external dependencies that connect to assets
supporting systems critical to the PSP, the sector, as well as track connections among
external dependencies, organizational assets, and cyber risks throughout their lifespans;
and
(v)
Tracking capabilities that enable timely notification of cyber risk management issues to
designated stakeholders.
3.2.4 Incident Response and Cyber Resilience
(i)

A cybersecurity incident is deemed to have occurred under circumstances that include,
but are not limited to any of the following:
14

a) a PSP or its agent is informed, through any source, of the installation or existence of
any malware in any of its systems or environments, or any system or environment of
one of its agents, no matter where such malware is located or how it was introduced;
b) a PSP or its agent receives notification from CBK, or any other credible source that
the PSP or its agent(s) has experienced a data breach or a potential data breach; or
c) a PSP or its agent discovers or, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, should have
discovered a data breach or unauthorized penetration of its own system or
environment or the system or environment of its agent(s).
(ii)

The PSP should plan for, respond to, contain and be able to rapidly recover from
disruptions caused by cyber incidents, thereby strengthening their cyber resilience. The
PSP should therefore have the capability of operating critical business functions in the
face of attacks and while continuously enhancing cyber resilience. An incident response
plan shall address the following areas:
a) The internal processes for responding to a cybersecurity event;
b) The goals of the incident response plan;
c) The definition of clear roles, responsibilities and levels of decision-making authority;
d) External and internal communications and information sharing;
e) Identification of requirements for the remediation of any identified weaknesses in
Information Systems and associated controls;
f) Documentation and reporting regarding cybersecurity events and related incident
response activities; and
g) The evaluation and revision as necessary of the incident response plan following a
cybersecurity event.

(iii)

In addition, PSPs should:
a) Establish processes designed to maintain effective situational awareness capabilities
to reliably predict, analyze and respond to changes in operating environment and to
maintain effective incident response and cyber resilience governance.
b) Establish processes for secure offline storage of critical records, including financial
records of the PSP using defined data standards to allow for restoration of the records
after a disruption.
c) Conduct testing that addresses a disruptive, destructive, corruptive or any other cyber
event that could affect the ability to service customers and avoid incurring significant
downtime that would affect the business operations of customers.

3.2.5 Vulnerability Assessments and Penetration Testing
The cybersecurity program for each PSP shall include monitoring and testing, developed in
accordance with the PSP’s Risk Assessment, designed to assess the effectiveness of the PSP’s
cybersecurity program. The monitoring and testing shall include continuous monitoring and
periodic Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Assessments.
15

In the absence of an effective continuous monitoring, or other systems to detect, on an ongoing
basis, changes in information systems that may create or indicate vulnerabilities, PSP’s shall
conduct:
(i) quarterly vulnerability scans of all critical cyber assets;
(ii) annual Penetration Testing of the PSP that cover, at a minimum, the critical cyber assets
as determined each given year based on the Risk Assessment; and
(iii) bi-annual vulnerability assessments, including any systematic scans or reviews of
Information Systems reasonably designed to identify publicly known cybersecurity
vulnerabilities in the PSP’s Information Systems based on the Risk Assessment.
3.3 Additional Requirement for Systemically Important Payment Systems and System-wide
Important Payment Systems
Operators of Systemically Important Payment Systems and System-Wide Important Payment
Systems are required to:(i) Ensure that the CISO is a senior management officer that reports to the Board.
(ii) Work closely with their third-party service providers and other participants in the
ecosystem to maintain and improve the security of interconnections and endpoint
security. For example, an operator could conduct response and recovery tests with its
third-party service providers and other participants.
(iii) Implement a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), whether in-house or
outsourced, that is responsible for responding to security incidents and intrusions, and
coordinating activities among the relevant internal and external stakeholders. Such a team
should have the authority to direct the operator to make the changes necessary to recover
from the incident.
(iv) Conduct scenario-based tests that cover breaches affecting multiple portions of the
operator’s ecosystem in order to identify and analyse potential complexities,
interdependencies and possible contagion both at business and operational level, which
should be taken into account in the operator’s cyber resilience framework.
3.4 Outsourcing
PSPs are rapidly expanding their reliance on outsourcing, cloud providers and other services that
are time saving and reduce operation costs. However, with this trend, risks such as cyber risk
could also emanate. PSPs should therefore ensure that their third-parties service providers
comply with legal and regulatory frameworks as well as the international best practices.
Generally, PSPs should:
(i) Have in place adequate governance framework for outsourcing agreements including due
diligence on prospective service providers, documented outsourcing agreements and
adequate monitoring of service delivery.
(ii) Consider all IT-related outsourcing agreements as critical infrastructure for regulation
and protection for purposes of security of the payment systems industry and the economy
at large.
16

(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)

(vii)

(viii)
(ix)

Select their vendors based on compliance and risk assessments.
Ensure all outsourcing contracts require service providers to comply with applicable legal
and regulatory frameworks.
Periodically assess the PSP’s outsourced services to understand those which pose higher
risk to the PSP so as to work with the third party on mitigation.
Have a documented data breach response plan that considers the third party and ensure
that this is tested on a periodic basis. The results of the breach exercise should be shared
with Senior Management, audit committee and the Board (as relevant).
Make it mandatory for their outsourced providers to report security incidents/breaches
within a certain timeframe in line with best practice. Typically, 48 hours is a good
benchmark.
Ensure the outsourced service or infrastructure is accorded at least the same minimum
security standards that the PSP accords to non-outsourced services and infrastructures.
Ensure that Service Level Agreements should have robust provisions in relation to
security, service availability, performance metrics and penalties.

3.4.1 Outsourcing Contracts
Outsourcing agreements should be governed by a clearly written contract, the nature and detail
of which should be appropriate to the materiality of the outsourced activity in relation to the
ongoing business of the PSP. The agreement should also bring out the nature of legal
relationship between the parties, that is, whether agent-principal or otherwise. Some of the key
provisions of the contract include:
(i) Security incident reporting, the PSP’s and CBK’s right to audit the service provider, and
penalty clauses for security lapses.
(ii) Details of activities to be outsourced including appropriate service and performance
standards.
(iii) Controls to ensure customer data confidentiality and service providers' liability in case of
breach of security and leakage of confidential customer related information.
(iv) Contingency plans to ensure business continuity and periodic testing of these plans.
(v)
A clause to allow CBK or persons authorized by it to access the institution’s documents,
records of transactions, and other necessary information given to, stored or processed by
the service provider within a reasonable time. The agreement should further provide that
in the event these are not made accessible CBK within a reasonable time, CBK may
pursue any or all of the remedial actions and administrative sanctions provided for under
the NPS Act.
3.4.2 Notification to CBK
PSPs should notify CBK of the intention to outsource functions, services and infrastructures at
least thirty days before such outsourcing agreements are executed.

17

3.5 Regular Independent Assessment and Testing
PSPs should also carry out regular independent assessment and audit functions that shall be
undertaken by the internal and external audit and risk functions.
3.5.1 Role of Risk Management Function
This comprises risk, control, compliance and oversight functions which ultimately ensure that the
PSP’s management of data, processes, risks, and controls are effectively operating. Risk
management has the duty to ensure that cybersecurity risks are managed within the enterprise
risk management portfolio (as a dedicated category or as a subset of the operational risk). The
PSP’s risk management function should include and is not limited to the tasks below:
(i) Assessing the risks and exposures related to cybersecurity and determining whether they
are aligned to the PSP’s risk appetite.
(ii) Monitoring current and emerging risks and changes to laws and regulations.
(iii) Collaborating with system administrators and others charged with safeguarding the
information assets of the PSP to ensure appropriate control design.
(iv) Maintain comprehensive cyber risk registers. The PSP should identify and assess key
cybersecurity risks regularly. Risk identification should be forward looking and include
the security incident handling.
(v)
Ensure implementation of the cyber and information risk management strategy.
(vi) Safeguarding the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information.
(vii) Ensure that a comprehensive inventory of IT assets, classified by business criticality, is
established and maintained. A Business Impact Analysis process is in place to regularly
assess the business criticality of IT assets.
(viii)
Quantify the potential impact by assessing the residual cyber risk and considering risks
that need to be addressed through insurance as a way of transferring cyber risk.
(ix) Reporting all enterprise risks consistently and comprehensively to the board to enable the
comparison of all risks equally in ensuring that they are prioritized correctly.
3.5.2 Role of Internal Audit Function
PSPs should incorporate qualified Information and Communication Technology (ICT) auditors
within their internal audit team. The ICT audit function can be outsourced if needed. The PSP’s
internal ICT auditors should ensure that the audit scope includes and is not limited to the tasks
below:
(i) Regular review and report on cyber risks and controls of the ICT systems within the PSP
and third party service providers.
(ii) Conduct up-front due diligence to mitigate risks associated with third parties.
(iii) Assess both the design and effectiveness of the cybersecurity framework implemented.
(iv) Conduct regular independent threat and vulnerability assessment tests.
(v)
Report to the board the findings of the assessments.
(vi) Oversee the regular penetration tests and vulnerability scans.
18

3.5.3 Role of External Audit Function
External auditors should ensure that the IT audit scope includes and is not limited to:
(i) Obtaining an understanding of the PSP’s IT infrastructure, use of IT, operations and the
impact of IT on financial reporting statements.
(ii) Understanding the extent of the PSP’s automated controls as they relate to business
reporting for the PSP. This should include an understanding of:
a) IT general controls that affect the automated controls.
b) Reliability of data and reports used in the audit that are produced by the PSP.
(iii) Conduct independent threat and vulnerability assessment.
(iv) Comprehensive review of the approved cybersecurity strategy and policy.
(v)
Conduct comprehensive penetration tests.
(vi) Report annually to the PSP’s board and CBK on the findings of the assessments.
3.6 Training and Awareness
(i)

(ii)
(iii)

PSPs should implement IT security awareness training programs to provide information
on good IT security practices, common threat types and the PSP’s policies and
procedures. The training should be provided to all employees including senior
management and the board.
A formalized plan should be put in place to provide ongoing technical training to
cybersecurity specialists within the PSP.
Cybersecurity awareness and information should be provided to the PSP’s customers,
clients, suppliers, partners, outsourced service providers, staff and other third parties who
have links to the PSP’s IT infrastructure.

4.0 Transitional Periods
PSPs shall have 90 days from the effective date of this Guideline to comply with the
requirements set forth in this Guideline.
PART IV: REPORTING
(i)

CBK is well aware of the fact that cyber risk will keep morphing due to the evolution of
cyber threats in Kenya and across the globe. Therefore all PSPs are required to review
their cybersecurity strategy, policy, and framework annually based on each PSP’s threat
and vulnerability assessment. All PSPs are required to submit their Cybersecurity Policy,
Strategies and Frameworks to the CBK by December 31, 2019. This will not apply to
commercial banks that are licensed under the Banking Act, who are subject to the
Guidance Note on Cybersecurity (August 2017). High level contents of a cybersecurity
policy are outlined in Annex I to this Guideline.
19

(ii)

PSPs should notify CBK within 24 hours, and SWIPS and SIPS within 2 hours, of any
Cybersecurity incident(s) that could have a significant and adverse impact on the PSP’s
ability to provide adequate services to its customers, its reputation or financial condition
in the format set out as Annex II (Immediate) to this Guideline. This should be followed
by a comprehensive report on the incident.

(iii)

On a quarterly basis, PSPs shall provide Central Bank of Kenya with a report in the
format set out as Annex III (Quarterly) to this Guideline, concerning its occurrence and
handling of Cybersecurity incidents.

The above information should be submitted to e-mail: nps@centralbank.go.ke In the event of
any query or clarification, please contact:
The Director,
Banking and Payment Services Department
Central Bank of Kenya
P. O. Box 60000 - 00200,
Nairobi
Tel: 2860000
Email: nps@centralbank.go.ke

20

ANNEX I
HIGH LEVEL CONTENTS OF A CYBERSECURITY POLICY
The Cybersecurity Policy should generally contain the following:
(i)
(ii)

(iii)
(iv)

(v)
(vi)
(vii)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)
(xi)

Governance: Mechanisms put in place to establish, implement and review its approach
to managing cyber risks.
Identification: Operational failure can negatively impact financial stability hence the
PSPs are required to identify their critical business functions and supporting information
assets so as to safeguard them against compromise.
Protection: Cyber resilience depends on effective security controls that protect the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of its assets and services.
Detection: PSP’s ability to detect the occurrence of anomalies and events indicating a
potential cyber incident is essential to strong cyber resilience. Early detection provides
the PSP with useful lead time to mount appropriate counter measures against a potential
breach, and allows proactive containment of actual breaches.
Resumption: This relates to response and recovery and provides guidance on how a PSP
should respond in order to contain, resume and recover from successful cyber-attacks.
Testing: Once employed within a PSP, the elements of its cyber resilience framework
should be rigorously tested to determine their overall effectiveness.
Situational awareness: Strong situational awareness can significantly enhance a PSP’s
ability to understand and pre-empt cyber events, and to effectively detect, respond to and
recover from cyber-attacks that are not prevented.
Learning and evolving: PSPs should aim to instill a culture of cyber risk awareness and
demonstrate ongoing re-evaluation and improvement of their cyber resilience posture at
every level within the PSP. There should be emphasis on importance of implementing an
adaptive cyber resilience framework that evolves with the dynamic nature of cyber risks
to enable effective management of those risks.
Collaboration: Effective solutions may necessitate collaboration between the PSPs and
their stakeholders as they seek to strengthen their own cyber resilience. Efforts to
coordinate the design of resilience solutions may bring enhanced strategies forward, in a
timelier and efficient way.
Organization and Resources: Allocation of an adequate cybersecurity budget based on
the PSP’s structure and size of its cyber risk function.
Cybersecurity Incident Management: Cybersecurity incident response plan should
provide a roadmap for the actions the PSP will take during and after a security incident.

21

ANNEX II
CYBERSECURITY INCIDENT RECORD (IMMEDIATE)
(Insert Name of participant) …………………………...………………….………
(Insert Date and Time of Reporting): …………………………………………………

Date of Incident

Time of Incident

Nature of Incident
(Chronological order
of events)

Impact Assessment

Submit the cybersecurity incident report after a cybersecurity incident(s) within 24 hours for
PSPs and within 2 hours for SWIPS and SIPS, to the Director, Banking & Payment Services
Department:
Email: nps@centralbank.go.ke
Signed for and on behalf of …………………………………………………………………….
By the duly authorized Signatories
Name…………………………………………………………………
Designation ………………………………………………………….
Signature ……………………………………………………………

Name…………………………………………………………………
Designation ………………………………………………………….
Signature ……………………………………………………………

22

ANNEX III
CYBERSECURITY INCIDENT RECORD (QUARTERLY)
(Insert Name of participant) …………………………...………………….………
(Reporting Period): …………………………………………………………….……………

No.

Date of Time of Nature of
Incident Incident Incident

Action
Taken

Time of
Resolution

Action Taken
to mitigate
future
incidents

Submit the cybersecurity incident report on the 10th day after the end of every quarter to the
Director, Banking & Payment Services Department at email: nps@centralbank.go.ke
Signed for and on behalf of ………………………………………………………………………
By the duly authorized Signatories
Name……………………………………………………………………………………………...
Designation ………………………………………………………….…………………………...
Signature ………………………………………………………………………………………...
Name………………………………………………………………….…………………………..
Designation ………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature …………………………………………………………………………………………

23

