澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation

On using attendance devices of biometric technologies
other than fingerprint or hand-geometry identification
Questions:
(1) Given the consent of their employees, can an employer institution use attendance
device of any currently available biometrics technology for the purpose of
verifying employee identity and attendance, in compliance with the law
governing personal data collection and processing?
(2) If hand-geometry, iris, vocal and facial features all fall in the category of
biometrics technology, why is it that your guide designates hand-geometry
verification as the tool for general attendance purposes? From the perspective of
IT technology, almost all biometric identification technologies rely on digitising
image data derived from a reader, and abstracting their characteristics by
computation. Since iris, vocal and facial data play the same function as that of
hand-geometry, how can using iris, vocal or facial identification technologies
enhance security in any way?
(3) If at the time of promulgation, the law had been made based on devices available
then that could only read hand-geometry data, would now be the time for the law
to be updated with the current state of technologies? Can employers legally use
any biometric identification devices currently available for attendance purposes?

Answer:
1.

In reply to the many enquires received about whether an employer institution
may, for attendance control purposes, use finger-prints or hand-geometry
attendance devices, this Office has, exercising the power of the public authority
referred in Law No. 8/2005 (the Personal Data Protection Act) and in No. 3 of
Article 79 of the Civil Code, prepared and made available to the public a
regulatory guide on using fingerprint /hand-geometry attendance devices.

2.

The fingerprint /hand-geometry devices referred to here are those that use
biometrics technologies for employee verification in attendance control
processes.

3.

One should note that this Office points out in the guide that where employers use
1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation
fingerprint /hand-geometry devices for employee attendance control, they must
comply with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. They must
observe the principle of good faith, of proportionality, of respecting personal
data privacy, of avoiding data processing for purposes other than that of data
collection, of keeping personal data not longer than necessary. They must meet
the criteria of legitimacy in data processing as provided in Article 6, and the
rights of the data subject as provided for in Article 10-12, as well as observe the
guidelines provided by this Office (including, in particular, that where it is
impractical or where technical precautionary measures are inadequate, avoid
using such biometrics verification equipment as fingerprint /hand-geometry
devices for attendance purposes). In other words, using fingerprint
/hand-geometry devices must be subject to certain restrictions.
4.

Technically, there are other biometric identification technologies available apart
from fingerprint /hand-geometry devices, such as those based on facial, vocal
and iris data. Here, drawing on specialist observations, we offer an analytical
table of the various biometric identification technologies in terms of their
principles, characteristics, scope of data collection, mode of data collection, as
well as their advantages and deficiencies, for people’s reference:

Biometric
identification
technologies
Fingerprint
/hand-geometr
y device

Working
principles

Advantages

Finger-prints,
palm geometry or
ultra-red light
image data are
collected in
advance, which
are then
converted to a
digital form that
is compatible
with and stored
on a particular
device.

Fingerprints
and body
structure do
not change
with time or
personal
emotions.

Disadvantages Active/Passive
data
sampling1
Body skin may Active
become coarse,
worn out with
aging and thus
adversely
affect the
reading
efficiency.

1

In general, biometric identification falls in two categories – active and passive. In active sampling,
the user initiates the operation of the biometric device, while in the passive mode the user does not
need to go through the prior data sampling procedure before using the device.
2

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation
Facial
identification
device

Vocal
identification
device

Iris
identification
device

These usually
make use of facial
features such as
iris, nose, corner
of mouth, and
turns their
profiles, sizes,
positions and
inter-distances
and angles to one
another into
mathematical
patterns, and
makes
verification by
comparison
Identity
verification is
achieved by vocal
spectrogram
comparison.

The features
do not
change with
time or
personal
emotions.

The human iris
covers unique
lens, and contains
fine stripes, dots,
dentures, radius,
wrinkles and
streaks, etc. The
device takes
pictures of the iris
and uses them to
make
identification and
verification.

Data do not
lend to easy
duplication
and forgery,
and as such
is safer as an
approach.

---------

Verification
accuracy and
efficiency may
be adversely
affected by
body posture
angle, ambient
light, hair,
jewelries,
aging, obesity,
etc; such
devices do not
distinguish
between twins.

It may be used
passively

The
It may be used
technology is
passively
susceptible to
influence by
ambient noise,
physical or
emotional
status; with
problematic
accuracy;
susceptible to
cheating with
pre-recorded
voice and
imitation
When taking
Active
data samples,
the device
shines a beam
of low-charge
light on the
eye of the user,
which may
cause fear and
psychological
resistance;
High device
cost.
3

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation
5.

From the above table it is obvious that each identification technology has its own
principle and characteristics:
(1) Active or Passive data sampling
Fingerprint /hand-geometry and iris identification devices are of the active
data sampling type, which require the user to undergo a data sampling process
before using the device. Therefore, the resulting data samples are more accurate
compared with that obtained with passive data sampling devices, with less
susceptibility to ambient influence. In contrast, facial and vocal identifications
may be used with passive sampling devices, which do not require the user to
undergo a prior sampling procedure. Such devices generally take a person’s data
samples through a camera or microphone and instantly perform data
identification. In such a process of data sampling, the user may not be aware or
told that their data are being collected. Therefore, the data collecting approach
adopted by such devices is intruding. Passive or intruding data sampling devices
have a potentially greater impact on the privacy of the people involved.
Moreover, biometrics data collected this way may lend to abuse that is unknown
to the data subject, or even used for secret surveillance. If attendance control is
the only intended purpose, using such devices and data risks breaching the
principle of reasonability.
(2) How the technologies affect the users
All biometric identification devices have an impact on the user in one way
or another. For example, in its data sampling process, an iris identification device
shines a beam of low-charge light on the eye of the user, which may cause fear
or psychological disturbance; facial identification devices, on the other hand,
may take longer in getting the data because of its susceptibility to influence from
ambient light, the presence of hair or ornaments. It suffers a relatively higher
error rate. The data such devices yield tend to be indicative of a person’s gender
and race, which may be sensitive data and therefore it may give rise to dispute.
Vocal identification devices need the user to utter a certain sound in order for
data sampling to complete, which may leave the user a feeling of being forced or
manipulated. In comparison, fingerprint /hand-geometry devices are less
intruding in data collection.
(3) Technical maturity
Fingerprint identification came earlier than most other biometrics
technologies, and is relatively mature, with high accuracy of data sampling.
(4) Degree of popularity and acceptance
It is well known that fingerprint technology has been used widely in
4

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation
personal identity verification for its low cost, efficiency of identification, and
ease of use. It is relatively popular in Macao. It gains popularity probably
because Macao’s personal identity laws have long required citizens to have their
fingerprints and palm prints registered. Therefore, fingerprints and palm prints as
biometrics data for identity verification are widely accustomed to, with a
relatively high degree of acceptance.
(5) Scope of use
Generally speaking, people tend to use fingerprint /hand-geometry
identification devices where attendance control is the only purpose of data
collection. Under special circumstances, however, as in a healthcare institution,
people tend to adopt devices that use technologies other than fingerprint
/hand-geometry in order to avoid health hazards. Biometric identification
technologies other than hand-geometry are mostly used for other purposes such
as gate keeping where security is a concern, as well as to avoid over-collection
and over-use of personal data.
6.

In view of the fact that fingerprint /hand-geometry identification as a technology
is relatively mature, and is popularly used, with better data sampling accuracy
and less impact on the user, this Office advise that, where attendance control is
the only intended purpose, employers should limit their use of biometrics
technology to that of hand-geometry (including palm shapes, infrared-ray palm
images, etc.); where there is no particular needs, attendance devices using facial,
vocal and iris data should be avoided.

7.

Of course, this does not mean that employers may not use devices of other
biometrics technologies for attendance control; it only means that in utilising
other technologies employers must heed the provisions of the Personal Data
Protection Act, as well as this Office’s specifications in this regard, and must
have good reasons. This Office will conduct further research into attendance
devices that use biometrics technologies in response to societal needs, and will
prepare and publish relevant regulatory guides for people's reference.

(Updated on 7 September 2009)

5

