澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Guidelines for Apps Development

When using mobile devices like smart phones, tablet computers, etc, quite often
personal data of Macao citizens is collected by app1 developers or app operators2.
In some cases, these apps even asked for user authorization to access non-user
personal data as stored on the devices. In view of the frequent personal data
processing undertaken by app developers and operators, the Office for Personal Data
Protection produced this guidance note as a reference for the general public.
I.

Application of the Personal Data Protection Act

Should an app developer or app operator, through any apps, accesses, transmits,
or uses the user‟s and non-user‟s personal data as stored on the mobile device,
including collecting information regarding geo-locations, user account(s), contact
list(s), etc., processing of information as such is subject to the Personal Data
Protection Act (PDPA, or Law 8/2005) according to its Article 4(1)(1) and 3(1).
II.

Processing purposes
App developers‟ or operators‟ purposes of processing personal data should be

directly relating to their provision of app services or functions.
III.

Data controller and processor of personal data processing

1

The apps as indicated in the current guidance note refer to those applications that provide certain
services or functions that are operated on smart phones, tablet computers or other mobile devices.
2
The app developers mentioned in the current guidance note generally refer to the parties that develop,
edit and maintain the applications. On the other hand, app operators generally refer to the parties that
manage, administer and operate mobile apps. In practice, however, it is difficult to completely
differentiate app developers and app operators as they are the same institution, and sometimes not.
Aside from app developers and operators, there may also involve other parties. According to Article
4(1)(5) of the PDPA, generally a party is entitled as data controller as long as it could decide for the
purposes and methods of the data processing.
1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Under Article 4(1)(5) of the PDPA, „controller shall mean the natural or legal
person, public entity, agency or any other body which alone or jointly with others
determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data‟. In contrast,
processor, under Article 4(1)(6) idem, shall mean „a natural or legal person, public
entity, agency or any other body which processes personal data on behalf of the
controller‟.
Generally the app developer, for the app operator‟s commercial interests,
develops apps on the latter‟s behalf. Even if the app developer could, at its liberty,
decide for the best technology and security measures to process personal data, this
was originated from the app operator‟s appointment. In other words, the app
developer does not have any rights to decide for the purposes and methods of the
personal data processing as it is as a processor. It is, indeed, the app operator to
decide for the purposes and the methods of the data processing as it is the data
controller. Under certain circumstances, however, if an app developer is also a data
controller, then it could decide for the purposes and methods of personal data
processing, for instance the app developer itself is also the app operator. On the
other hand, when the app developer and app operator jointly decide for the purposes
and methods of the personal data processing, as a consequence both of them are
regarded as data controllers. One of the examples as such is when the app developer
develops an app on behalf of an app operator but at the same time the former also
processes personal data for its own interests.
As a consequence it is important for the app developer and app operator to
confirm their identities in the data processing. If a party is confirmed as a data
controller, this will make its personal data processing subject to the PDPA and it
should therefore assume the responsibility stipulated by the PDPA accordingly.
IV.

Data processing legitimacy

(I)

General personal data

2

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
1.

Collecting and processing users‟ personal data
Article 6 of the PDPA stipulated the conditions to establish the legitimacy for

personal data processing:
(1) the data subject has unambiguously given his consent;
(2) precautionary measures prior to the performance or conclusion of a contract;
(3) for compliance with a legal obligation;
(4) to protect the vital interests of the data subject who is physically or legally
incapable of giving his consent;
(5) acting in the public interests or for the legal competence of a public authority;
(6) for pursuing legitimate interests that precedes other interests.
Normally when a data controller processes general personal data, legitimacy
could be established under the aforementioned conditions (1) and (2). Under Article
4(1)(9) of the PDPA, explicit consent from a data subject is based on his informed,
freely given and specific consent that signified his agreement to the concerned data
processing.
When an app is used, normally the app developer or operator processes personal
data under two kinds of circumstances, firstly, based on the user‟s consent —
processing legitimacy of the developer or operator only originates from the user‟s
consent. A user‟s consent, however, is only valid when he has been informed of and
freely given his genuine consent to the data processing aimed at specific purposes.
In addition, the consent could be withdrawn at any time he wishes. For instance, if a
customer could decide whether to provide his data before an app installation or
personal data processing taking place, explicit consent is constituted if he still
submitted his personal data provided that he had been informed by the data controller
that for the app services and functions his personal data would be processed. On the
other hand, when using an app, the user‟s consent is constituted if he submitted his
data voluntarily when informed by the data controller that the newly added services or
3

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
functions of the app currently in use would process his user data. Secondly, when
the app developer or operator laid down in the terms of use of an app that required its
users to provide certain types of personal data before certain app services or functions
could be used, legitimacy will be established for personal data processing if this user
provided his data. Legitimacy as such is established for discharging the contractual
terms laid down therein. For example, when installing or running an app, its terms
of use asked the user to provide his geo-location information, if he consented to and
installed the app, the data controller could then rely on the contract it concluded with
him to process his user personal data.

2.

Accessing non-user data stored on mobile devices

When a data controller processes non-user information stored on any mobile
device, it is also subject to Article 6 of the PDPA, which requires that data processing
is based on any of the legitimacy conditions previously mentioned. For instance,
according to the terms of use laid down for the instant messaging software it provided,
a data controller would access the user‟s contact list during the provision of services,
then data processing legitimacy is based on the performance of contractual terms.
(II)

Sensitive data

Under Article 7(1) of the PDPA, „the processing of personal data revealing
philosophical or political beliefs, political society or trade union membership, religion,
privacy and racial or ethnic origin, and the processing of data concerning health or sex
life, including genetic data, shall be prohibited.‟ Exceptionally, when a data
controller is under circumstances as stipulated in Article 7 of the PDPA, sensitive data
could only be processed when special security measures are adopted according to
Article 16 of the PDPA, in addition that the non-discrimination principle is at the
same time observed. Generally only when a data subject has expressly given his
consent then a data controller could process his sensitive personal data.
4

One of the

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
examples is the special outpatient appointments provided by health care facilities, the
data controller could only achieve the legitimacy to process health data as long as a
patient has explicitly consented to.
(III)

Information relating to unlawful acts

Normally it is unnecessary for a data controller to process any personal data in
regard a data subject‟s unlawful or criminal activities or administrative offenses.
V.

Data processing principles

When processing personal data, a data controller must adhere to the principles
given in Article 2 and 5 of the PDPA, including the “principles of specific and explicit
purposes and lawfulness”, “principle of proportionality”, as well as the principle
governing that “data shall not be kept for longer than is necessary”. Data controllers
are required to adhere to the principle of proportionality in particular.
Under the principle of proportionality, personal data processing must be
„adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which it is
collected and further processed‟. The data collected, therefore, must be necessary to
the functions of the app, i.e., the data collected by the app is appropriate to its
purposes, in addition that excessive personal data should not be collected and
processed. For instance, without collecting the user‟s geo-location information
stored on a mobile device, a restaurant finder app could still recommend the
restaurants in the regions or area where the user is interested in. As another example,
without the user‟s authorization if an app, provided by a public authority, has required
user‟s authorization in order to access his contact list and to read contact records, this
could be regarded as an unnecessary authorization, with which the information
collected is unnecessary for the purposes the app intended to achieve.
VI.

Rights of the data subjects

5

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Article 10 to 14 of the PDPA guarantee the list of the rights enjoyed by the data
subjects, including the right to information, right of access, right to rectify and right to
object, etc.
Data controllers should respect the right to information of the data subjects.
When collecting personal data through mobile apps, it should formulate declaration,
terms of use, or privacy policies that are easy to read, find and understand. To
guarantee the right to information as laid down in Article 10 of the PDPA, a data
controller should provide to the data subjects information like the identity of the
organization, the processing purposes, the type of entity to receive the data, the right
to information, right to rectify and the conditions to exercise such rights.
Concurrently with the above, the data controller should also specify its contact
information in its apps, in case its user wishes to exercise his right of access.
VII.

Data security and confidentiality

(I)

Data security

With regard security of personal data processing, Article 15 of the PDPA, which
governed the Security of processing, requires data controllers to provide appropriate
technical and organizational measures to ensure personal data security.
Moreover, when appointing a data developer, a processor (the party to be
appointed) who provides sufficient safeguards in respect of technical security
measures and organizational measures should be selected. The relationship between
the two parties should be bound by a contract. Meanwhile, the data controller should
inspect the implementation of the measures in order to ensure the processor complies
with the PDPA. The processor should only be allowed to process data within the
scope of the contract and according to the controller‟s instructions.
Should the processing of an app involve sensitive data or data regarding unlawful
or criminal activities or administrative offences, as given in Article 7(2) and 8(1) of
6

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
the PDPA, the data controller must adopt special security measures according to
Article 16 idem.
It should be noted that the system used to process personal data must ensure
logical separation of the data concerning health or sex life, including genetic data.
(II)

Professional secrecy

According to Article 18 of the PDPA, the data controllers and those who
accessed personal data while discharging their duties are covered by professional
secrecy even after the duties are finished.
Professional secrecy is a lifelong obligation, requiring those covered by this
obligation, even after they left the jobs, to keep confidential the information they
obtained when discharging their duties.
When professional secrecy is violated, the involved party is liable to criminal
responsibility according to Article 41 of the PDPA; even if it was caused by
negligence it is also liable to punishment.
VIII. Data accuracy and retention period
According to Article 5(1)(4) of the PDPA, personal data should be accurate and,
where necessary, kept up to date; adequate measures must be taken to ensure that data
is inaccurate or incomplete, having regard to the purposes for which it is collected or
for which it is further processed, erased or rectified. For example, when an app will
access or update the user‟s contact list, then it should also delete the old contact
information.
Also under Article 5(1)(5) of the PDPA, personal data should be kept in a form
which permits identification of their subjects for no longer than is necessary for the
purposes for which it is collected or for which it is further processed. To this, the
data controller should, in its apps, guarantee to remove or delete information.
7

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Whenever a user has reasonably requested to remove the information or his user
account has been terminated, unless as otherwise legally stipulated, the data controller
should never continue retaining the concerned information, and should completely
remove, archive or delete the information accordingly.
In other words, the data controller should maintain the accuracy of the data it
processed, and should not retain it for no longer than is necessary for the purposes it
intended to achieve.
IX.

Formulating policies
Data controllers should formulate policies for processing personal data (for

instance, guidelines or processing procedures). While formulating, data controllers
should consider the types of the access authorizations it intends to seek from the users,
whether authorizations exceed what the users have expected from the scope of
services or functions of the app, how the app explained to its users the reasons and the
further processing of the personal data it collected, as well as how to ensure the
security and confidentiality of the data to be processed, etc. Formulating clear
guidelines, terms of use, and privacy policies help users have a better understanding
about the data to be collected.
X.

Notification obligation

When processing of personal data is under conditions as specified in Article 21
of the PDPA, the data controller should notify the GPDP; otherwise it may constitute
administrative offenses.
XI.

Conclusion
No doubt apps bring convenience to daily life but when they are used to collect

personal data, data controllers should ensure the purposes and the methods established
for the data collection, as well as data accuracy, retention period, use of data, data
8

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
security and confidentially should all be in compliance with the principles of
lawfulness and good faith as laid down in the PDPA and other regulations. In
addition, particular attention should be devoted to the following:

1) App developers or operators should process personal data based on the
purposes directly relating to the services or functions of the app.
2) Legitimacy of personal data processing normally originates from the
explicit consent given by the data subjects.
3) Data subjects’ right to information should be ensured.
4) Data processing should be proportional; the data processed should be
necessary for the services or functions of the app.
5) Data security and confidentiality should be guaranteed.
6) Notification obligation should be undertaken.
Office for Personal Data Protection
September 11th, 2014

9

