-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

THE MACAO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION
Act 8/2005
Personal Data Protection Act
Under Article 71 (1) of the Basic Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region, the
Legislative Council hereby decrees the following to implement the fundamental order
established by Articles 30, 32, and 43 of the Basic Law of the Macao Special
Administrative Region.

CHAPTER I
General provisions
Article 1
Object
This Act establishes the legal system on the processing and protection of personal data.
Article 2
General principle
The processing of personal data shall be carried out transparently and in strict respect for
privacy and for other fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees enacted in the Basic
Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region, the instruments of international law
and the legislation in force.
Article 3
Scope
1 – This Act shall apply to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by automatic
means, and to the processing other than by automatic means of personal data which form
part of manual filing systems or which are intended to form part of manual filing systems.
2 – This Act shall not apply to the processing of personal data carried out by a natural
person in the course of a purely personal or household activity, save those with the
purposes of systematic communication and dissemination.
3 – This Act shall apply to video surveillance and other forms of capture, processing and
dissemination of sound and images allowing persons to be identified, provided the
controller is domiciled or based in the Macao Special Administrative Region (the MSAR)

1

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

or makes use of a computer or data communication network access provider established
on the MSAR territory.
4 – This Act shall apply to the processing of personal data regarding public safety without
prejudice to special rules in instruments of international law and inter-regional
agreements to which the MSAR is bound and specific laws pertinent to public safety and
other related regulations.
Article 4
Definitions
1 – For the purposes of this Act:
(1) “personal data” shall mean any information of any type, irrespective of the type of
medium involved, including sound and image, relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person (“data subject”); an identifiable person is one who can be identified,
directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an indication number or to one or
more factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or
social identity;
(2) “data subject” shall mean the natural person whose data are processed;
(3) “processing of personal data” (“processing”) shall mean any operation or set of
operations which is performed upon personal data, whether or not by automatic
means, such as collection, recording, organisation, storage, adaptation or alteration,
retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise
making available, alignment or combination, blocking, erasure or destruction;
(4) “personal data filing system” (“filing system”) shall mean any structured set of
personal data which are accessible according to specific criteria, regardless of the
form or method of its establishment, storage and organization;
(5) “controller” shall mean the natural or legal person, public entity, agency or any other
body which alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of the
processing of personal data;
(6) “processor” shall mean a natural or legal person, public entity, agency or any other
body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller;
(7) “third party” shall mean any natural or legal person, public entity, agency or any other
body other than the data subject, the controller, the processor and the persons under
the direct authority of the controller or the processor, which are qualified to process
the data;
(8) “recipient” shall mean a natural or legal person, public entity, agency or any other
body to whom data are disclosed, whether a third party or not; however, authorities
which may receive data in the framework of a law or a statutory regulation with
organizational nature shall not be regarded as recipients;

2

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

(9) “the data subject’s consent” shall mean any freely given specific and informed
indication of his wishes by which the data subject signifies his agreement to personal
data relating to him being processed;
(10)“combination of data” shall mean a form of processing which consists of the
possibility of correlating data in a filing system with data in a filing system or systems
kept by another or other controllers or kept by the same controller for other purposes;
(11)“public authority” shall mean an entity to which No. 3 of Article 79 of the Civil Code
refers;
(12)“statutory regulation with organizational nature” shall mean a provision in law
regulating the organization and function, or in the statute, of any entity that is
competent to process the personal data or carry out other actions enacted in this act.
2 – To serve (5) above, if the purpose and method are determined in the law or statutory
regulation with organizational nature, the controller shall be designated in it.

CHAPTER II
Processing and quality of personal data and the lawfulness of their processing
Article 5
Data quality
1 – Personal data must be:
(1) processed lawfully and with respect for the principle of good faith and the general
principle in Article 2;
(2) collected for specified, explicit, legitimate purposes and for purposes directly related
to the activity of the controller; and not further processed in a way incompatible with
those purposes;
(3) adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are
collected and/or further processed;
(4) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; adequate measures must be taken to
ensure that data which are inaccurate or incomplete, having regard to the purposes for
which they were collected or for which they are further processed, are erased or
rectified;
(5) kept in a form which permits identification of their subjects for no longer than is
necessary for the purposes for which they were collected or for which they are further
processed.

3

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

2 – The storing of data for historical, statistical or scientific purposes for longer periods
than in (5) above may be authorised by the public authority at the request of the controller
in the case of a legitimate interest.
Article 6
Criteria for making data processing legitimate
Personal data may be processed only if the data subject has unambiguously given his
consent or if processing is necessary:
(1) for the performance of a contract or contracts to which the data subject is party or in
order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract or
a declaration of his will to negotiate;
(2) for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(3) in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject if the latter is physically or
legally incapable of giving his consent;
(4) for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
official authority vested in the controller or in a third party to whom the data are
disclosed;
(5) for pursuing the legitimate interests of the controller or the third party to whom the
data are disclosed, except where such interests should be overridden by the interests
for fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data subject.
Article 7
The processing of sensitive data
1 – The processing of personal data revealing philosophical or political beliefs, political
society or trade union membership, religion, privacy and racial or ethnic origin, and the
processing of data concerning health or sex life, including genetic data, shall be
prohibited.
2 – With guarantees of non-discrimination and with the security measures provided for in
Article 16, the processing of the data referred to in the previous number shall be carried
out when one of the following conditions applies:
(1) when the processing of the data referred to in the previous number is given explicit
authorisation by a legal provision or by a statutory regulation with organizational
nature;
(2) when, on important public interest grounds, such processing is essential for exercising
the legal or statutory rights of the controller, and authorised by the public authority;
(3) when the data subject has given his explicit consent for such processing.
3 – The processing of the data referred to in No. 1 shall also be carried out when one of
the following conditions applies:

4

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

(1) when it is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another
person, and the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving his consent;
(2) when it is carried out with the data subject’s consent in the course of its legitimate
activities by a legal person or non-profit seeking body with a political, philosophical,
religious or trade union aim and on condition that the processing relates solely to the
members of the body or to persons who have regular contact with it in connection
with its purposes and that the data are not disclosed to a third party without the
consent of the data subjects;
(3) when it relates to data which are manifestly made public by the data subject, provided
his consent for their processing can be clearly inferred from his declarations;
(4) when it is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims and is
exclusively carried out for that purpose.
4 – The processing of data relating to health and sex life, including genetic data, shall be
carried out if it is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine, medical diagnosis,
the provision of care or treatment or the management of health-care services, provided
those data are processed by a health professional bound by professional secrecy or by
another person also subject to an equivalent obligation of secrecy, and it is notified to the
public authority under Article 21, and where suitable safeguards are provided.
Article 8
Suspicion of illegal activities, criminal and administrative offences
1 – Central registers relating to persons suspected of illegal activities, criminal and
administrative offences and decisions applying penalties, security measures, fines and
additional penalties may only be created and kept by public services vested with that
specific responsibility by a legal provision or a statutory regulation with organizational
nature, subject to observance of procedural and data protection rules in force.
2 – The processing of personal data relating to persons suspected of illegal activities,
criminal and administrative offences and decisions applying penalties, security measures,
fines and additional penalties may be carried out, subject to observance of the rules for
the protection of data and the security of information, when such processing is necessary
for pursuing the legitimate purposes of the controller, provided the fundamental rights
and freedoms of the data subject are not overriding.
3 – The processing of personal data for the purposes of police investigations shall be
restricted to the processing necessary to prevent a specific danger or to prosecute a
particular offence and to exercise the responsibilities provided for in a legal provision,
in a statutory regulation with organizational nature, or in the terms of instruments of
international law or inter-regional agreements applicable in the MSAR.

5

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 9
Combination of personal data
1 - The combination of personal data not provided for in a legal provision or a statutory
regulation with organizational nature shall be subject to the authorisation of the public
authority, requested by the controller or jointly by the corresponding controllers under No.
1 of Article 22.
2 - The combination of personal data must:
(1) be necessary for pursuing the legal or statutory purposes and legitimate interests of
the controller;
(2) not involve discrimination or a reduction in the fundamental rights and freedoms of
the data subjects;
(3) be covered by adequate security measures;
(4) take account of the type of data subject to combination.

CHAPTER III
Rights of the data subject
Article 10
Right to information
1 – The controller or his representative shall provide a data subject from whom data
relating to himself are collected with the following information, except where he already
has it:
(1) the identity of the controller and of his representative, if any;
(2) the purposes of the processing;
(3) other information such as:
(i) The recipients or categories of recipients;
(ii) Whether replies are obligatory or voluntary, as well as the possible
consequences of failure to reply;
(iii) The existence and conditions of the right of access and the right to rectify,
provided they are necessary, taking account of the specific circumstances of
collection of the data in order to guarantee the data subject that they will be
processed fairly.
2 – The documents supporting the collection of personal data shall contain the
information set down in the previous number.
3 – If the data are not collected from the data subject and except where he already has it,
the controller or his representative must provide the data subject with the information set

6

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

down in No. 1 at the time of undertaking the recording of data or, if a disclosure to third
parties is envisaged, no later than the time the data are first disclosed.
4 – If data are collected on open networks the data subject shall be informed, except
where he is already aware of it, that personal data relating to him may be circulated on the
network without security measures and may be at risk of being seen and used by
unauthorised third parties.
5 – The obligation to provide information may be waived by any one of the following:
(1)a legal provision;
(2)on the grounds of security and criminal prevention or investigation;
(3)in particular for processing for statistical purposes or for the purposes of historical or
scientific research, when the provision of such information proves impossible or would
involve a disproportionate effort or if recording or disclosure is expressly laid down by
law or administrative regulations, in which case notification to the public authority is
required.
6 – With respect to the basic right of the data subject under No. 3 of the next article, the
obligation to provide information under this Article shall not apply to the processing of
data carried out solely for journalistic purposes or the purpose of artistic or literary
expression.
Article 11
Right of access
1 – The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller without constraint at
reasonable intervals and without excessive delay or expense:
(1) Confirmation as to whether or not data relating to him are being processed and
information as to the purposes of the processing, the categories of data concerned and
the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data are disclosed;
(2) Communication in an intelligible form of the data undergoing processing and of any
available information as to their source;
(3) Knowledge of the reason involved in any automatic processing of data concerning
him;
(4) The rectification, erasure or blocking of data the processing of which does not comply
with the provisions of this Act, in particular because of the incomplete or inaccurate
nature of the data;
(5) Notification to third parties to whom the data have been disclosed of any rectification,
erasure or blocking carried out in compliance with (4), in which case the third parties
are required to rectify, erase or block the data accordingly, unless this proves
impossible, or would involve a disproportionate effort.

7

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

2 – In the case of the processing of personal data relating to security and criminal
prevention or investigation, the right of access may be exercised by means of the
competent authority in that case.
3 – In the cases provided for in No. 6 of the previous article, the right of access is
exercised by means of the public authority, securing the rules applicable, in particular
those guaranteeing freedom of expression and information, freedom of the press and the
professional independence and secrecy of journalists.
4 – In the cases provided for in No. 2 and No. 3, if communication of the data might
prejudice security, criminal prevention or investigation and freedom of expression and
information or the freedom of the press, the competent authority in that case or the public
authority shall only inform the data subject of the measures taken within the limits of
maintaining the targeted value of protection described in this number.
5 – The right of access to information relating to health data, including genetic data, is
exercised by means of the doctor chosen by the data subject.
6 – If the data are not used for taking measures or decisions regarding any particular
individual, the law may restrict the right of access where there is clearly no risk of
breaching the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data subject,
particularly the right to privacy, and when the data are used solely for purposes of
scientific research or are kept in personal form for a period which does not exceed the
period necessary for the sole purpose of creating statistics.
Article 12
Right to object
1. Save where otherwise provided by law, the data subject has the right to object at any
time on compelling legitimate grounds relating to his particular situation to the processing
of data relating to him, and where there is a justified objection the processing instigated
by the controller may no longer involve those data;
2. The data subject also has the right to object, on request and free of charge, to the
processing of personal data relating to him which the controller anticipates being
processed for the purposes of direct marketing or any other form of commercial research,
or to be informed before personal data are disclosed for the first time to third parties for
the purposes of direct marketing or for use on behalf of third parties, and to be expressly
offered the right to object free of charge to such disclosure or uses.
Article 13
Right not to be subject to automated individual decisions
1 – Every person shall have the right not to be subject to a decision which produces legal
effects concerning him or significantly affects him and which is based solely on

8

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

automated processing of data intended to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to him,
in particular his performance at work, creditworthiness, reliability or conduct.
2 – Without prejudice to compliance with the other provisions of this Act, a person may
be subject to a decision taken under No. 1:
(1) if that decision is taken in the course of the entering into or performance of a
contract, provided that the request for the entering into or the performance of the
contract has been satisfied, or that there are suitable measures to safeguard his
legitimate interests, particularly arrangements allowing him to put his point of
view.
(2) if that decision is authorised by a legal provision which shall lay down measures
to safeguard the data subject’s legitimate interests.
Article 14
Right to indemnification
1 –Any person who has suffered damage as a result of an unlawful processing operation
or of any other act incompatible with legal provisions or regulations in the area of
personal data protection is entitled to receive compensation from the controller for the
damage suffered.
2 – The controller may be exempted from this liability, in whole or in part, if he proves
that he is not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.
3 – If a processor involves, Article 492 of the Civil Code and its following provisions
pertinent to relation of commission shall apply.

CHAPTER IV
Security and confidentiality of processing
Article 15
Security of processing
1 – The controller must implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to
protect personal data against accidental or unlawful destruction or accidental loss,
alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access, in particular where the processing involves
the transmission of data over a network, and against all other unlawful forms of
processing. Having regard to the state of the art and the cost of their implementation, such
measures shall ensure a level of security appropriate to the risks represented by the
processing and the nature of the data to be protected.

9

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

2 – Where processing is carried out on his behalf the controller must choose a processor
providing sufficient guarantees in respect of the technical security measures and
organisational measures governing the processing to be carried out, and must ensure
compliance with those measures.
3 – The carrying out of processing by way of a processor must be governed by a contract
or legal act binding the processor to the controller and stipulating in particular that the
processor shall act only on instructions from the controller and that the obligations
referred to in No. 1 shall also be incumbent on the processor.
4 – Proof of the will to negotiate, the contract or the legal act relating to data protection
and the requirements relating to the measures referred to in No. 1 shall be in writing in a
document legally certified as affording proof.
Article 16
Special security measures
1 - The controllers of the data referred to in No. 2 of Articles 7 and Article 8 shall take
appropriate measures to:
1) prevent unauthorised persons from entering the premises used for processing such data
(control of entry to the premises);
2) prevent data media from being read, copied, altered or removed by unauthorised
persons (control of data media);
3) prevent unauthorised input and unauthorised obtaining of knowledge, alteration or
elimination of personal data input (control of input);
4) prevent automatic data processing systems from being used by unauthorised persons by
means of data transmission premises (control of use);
5) guarantee that authorised persons may only access data covered by the authorisation
(control of access);
6) guarantee the checking of the bodies to whom personal data may be transmitted by
means of data transmission premises (control of transmission);
7) guarantee that it is possible to check a posteriori , in a period appropriate to the nature
of the processing, the establishment in the regulations applicable to each sector of
which personal data are input, when and by whom (control of input);
8) in transmitting personal data and in transporting the respective media, prevent
unauthorised reading, copying, alteration or elimination of data (control of transport).
2 – Taking account of the nature of the bodies responsible for processing and the type of
premises in which it is carried out, the public authority may waive the existence of
certain security measures, subject to guaranteeing respect for the fundamental rights,
freedoms and guarantees of the data subjects.

10

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

3 – The systems must guarantee logical separation between data relating to health and sex
life, including genetic data, and other personal data.
4 – Where circulation over a network of the data referred to in Article 7 may jeopardise
the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of their data subjects the public
authority may determine that transmission must be encoded.
Article 17
Processing by a processor
Any person acting under the authority of the controller or the processor, including the
processor himself, who has access to personal data must not process them except on
instructions from the controller, unless he is required to do so by law.
Article 18
Professional secrecy
1 – Controllers and persons who obtain knowledge of the personal data processed in
carrying out their functions shall be bound by professional secrecy, even after their
functions have ended.
2 –Officers, agents or staff who act as consultants for the public authority shall be subject
to the same obligation of professional secrecy.
3 – The provision in the previous numbers shall not exclude the duty to supply the
obligatory information according to the law, except when it is contained in filing systems
organised for statistical purposes.

CHAPTER V
Transfer of personal data outside the MSAR
Article 19
Principles
1 - The transfer of personal data to a destination outside the MSAR may only take place
subject to compliance with this Act and provided the legal system in the destination to
which they are transferred ensures an adequate level of protection.
2 – The adequacy of the level of protection referred to in the previous number shall be
assessed in the light of all the circumstances surrounding a data transfer operation or set
of data transfer operations; particular consideration shall be given to the nature of the data,
the purpose and duration of the proposed processing operation or operations, the place of
origin and place of final destination, the rules of law, both general and sectoral, in force in

11

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

the destination in question and the professional rules and security measures which are
complied with in that destination.
3 – It is for the public authority to decide whether a legal system ensures an adequate
level of protection referred to in the previous number.
Article 20
Derogations
1 - A transfer of personal data to a destination in which the legal system does not ensure
an adequate level of protection within the meaning of No. 2 of the previous article may be
allowed on condition that the public authority is notified, and that the data subject has
given his consent unambiguously to the proposed transfer, or if that transfer:
(1) is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the
controller or the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken in response to the
data subject’s request;
(2) is necessary for the performance or conclusion of a contract concluded or to be
concluded in the interests of the data subject between the controller and a third party;
(3) is necessary or legally required on important public interest grounds, or for the
establishment, exercise of defence of legal claims;
(4) is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
(5) is made from a register which according to laws or administrative regulations is
intended to provide information to the public and which is open to consultation either
by the public in general or by any person who can demonstrate legitimate interest,
provided the conditions laid down in law for consultation are fulfilled in the particular
case.
2 – Without prejudice to No. 1 the public authority may authorise a transfer or a set of
transfers of personal data to a destination in which the legal system does not ensure an
adequate level of protection within the meaning of No. 2 of the previous article, provided
the controller adduces adequate safeguards with respect to the protection of the privacy
and fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and with respect to their exercise,
particularly by means of appropriate contractual clauses.
3 – A transfer of personal data which is necessary for the protection of defence, public
security and public health, and for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of
criminal offences, shall be governed by special legal provisions or by the international
conventions and regional agreements to which the MSAR is party.

12

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

CHAPTER VI
Notification
Article 21
Obligation of notification
1 – The controller or his representative, if any, must notify the public authority in written
form within eight days after the initiation of carrying out any wholly or partly automatic
processing operation or set of such operations intended to serve a single purpose or
several related purposes.
2 – The public authority may authorise the simplification of or exemption from
notification for particular categories of processing which are unlikely, taking account of
the data to be processed, to affect adversely the rights and freedoms of the data subjects
and to take account of criteria of speed, economy and efficiency.
3 – The authorisation, which must be published in the Official Gazette of the MSAR, must
specify the purposes of the processing, the data or category of data to be processed, the
category or categories of data subjects, the recipients or categories of recipients to whom
the data may be disclosed and the length of time the data are to be stored.
4 – Processing whose sole purpose is the keeping of a register which according to laws or
administrative regulations is intended to provide information to the public and which is
open to consultation by the public in general or by any person demonstrating a legitimate
interest shall be exempted from notification.
5 – The non-automatic processing of the personal data provided for in No. 1 of Article 7
shall be subject to notification when they are processed under No. 3 (1) of that Article.
Article 22
Prior checking
1 – Save where otherwise referred to in No. 2, the authorisation of the public authority is
required for:
(1) the processing of personal data referred to in No. 2 of Article 7;
(2) the processing of personal data relating to credit and the solvency of the data subjects;
(3) the combination of personal data provided for in Article 9;
(4) the use of personal data for purposes not giving rise to their collection.
2 – The processing referred to in the previous number may be authorised by legal
provisions or statutory regulations with organizational nature, in which case it does not
require the authorisation of the public authority.

13

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 23
Content of applications for opinions or authorisation and notification
Applications for opinions, authorisation and notifications submitted to the public
authority shall include the following information:
(1) the name and address of the controller and of his representative, if any;
(2) the purposes of the processing;
(3) a description of the category or categories of data subjects and of the data or
categories of personal data relating to them;
(4) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data might be disclosed and in
what circumstances;
(5) the body entrusted with processing the information, if it is not the controller himself;
(6) any combinations of personal data processing;
(7) the length of time for keeping personal data;
(8) the form and circumstances in which the data subjects may be informed of or may
correct the personal data relating to them;
(9) proposed transfers of data to third countries;
(10) a general description enabling a preliminary assessment to be made of the adequacy
of the measures taken under Articles 15 and 16 to ensure security of processing.
Article 24
Obligatory information
1 – The legal provisions or statutory regulations with organizational nature referred to in
No. 2 of Article 7 and No. 1 of Article 8, the authorisations of the public authority and the
register of personal data processing must indicate at least:
(1) the controller of the filing system and his representative, if any;
(2) the categories of personal data processed;
(3) the purposes of the data and the categories of body to whom they might be disclosed;
(4) the form of exercising the right of access and rectification.;
(5) any combinations of personal data processing;
(6) proposed transfers of data to third countries or regions.
2 – Any change in the information referred to in No. 1 shall be subject to the procedures
provided for in Articles 21 and 22.
Article 25
Publicising of processing operations
1 – When personal data processing is not covered by a legal provision or statutory
regulations with organizational nature, and must be authorised or notified, it shall be set
down in a public authority register open to consultation by any person.

14

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

2 – The register shall contain the information listed in (1) to (4) and (9) of Article 23.
3 – A controller not subject to notification shall make available at least the information
referred to in No. 1 of the previous article in an appropriate form to any person on
request.
4 – This Article does not apply to processing whose sole purpose is the keeping of a
register which according to laws or administrative regulations is intended to provide
information to the public and which is open to consultation either by the public in general
or by any person who can provide proof of a legitimate interest.
5 – All the opinions and authorisations drawn up or granted under this Act, particularly
the authorisations provided for in No. 2 of Article 7 and No. 1 of Article 9, must be
published by the public authority in its annual report.

CHAPTER VII
Codes of conduct
Article 26
Codes of conduct
The public authority shall encourage the drawing up of codes of conduct intended to
contribute to the proper implementation of the provisions in this Act, to enhance a great
efficacy of self regulation, and to exercise and protect privacy pertained basic rights,
taking account of the specific features of the various sectors.
Article 27
Submission of draft codes of conduct
1 – Professional associations and other bodies representing other categories of controllers
which have drawn up draft codes of conduct shall be able to submit them to the public
authority for registration.
2 – If the public authority considers the draft as in accordance with the laws and
regulations in force in the area of personal data protection, a registration shall be made.
3 – The registration of the codes of conduct has the effect of a declaration of its
lawfulness but does not have the nature of a legal provision or a statutory regulation.

15

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

CHAPTER VIII
Administrative and legal supervision
SECTION I
Administrative and legal supervision
Article 28
General principles
Without prejudice to the right to submit a complaint to the public authority, according to
the law any individual may have recourse to administrative and legal means to guarantee
compliance with legal provisions and statutory regulations in the area of personal data
protection.
Article 29
Special legal supervision
1 – Appeals may be lodged directly to the Court of Final Appeal against decisions
reached by a law court for the reason of violation of fundamental rights protected by this
act. It shall be direct and limited to only the questions on violation against fundamental
rights, and shall have an urgent nature.
2 – Without prejudice to the previous number, for administrative acts or simple facts of
public powers, appeals may be lodged to the Administrative Court for reasons of violation
of fundamental rights protected by this act. The appeal shall have an urgent nature.
3 – In compliance with the previous two numbers, Article 7 of the Codes of Civil
Procedures shall apply to the duly adapted appeal procedure mentioned in the previous
two numbers. It also applies to and supplements the duly adapted law of civil procedures
and administrative procedures respectively.

SECTION II
Administrative offences
Article 30
Subsidiary legislation
The general system of administrative offences, adapted according to the following articles,
is subsidiarily applicable to the offences provided for in this section.

16

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 31
Compliance with duty omitted
Whenever the administrative offence arises from omitting a duty, application of the
penalty and payment of the fine do not release the perpetrator from compliance with that
duty, if it is still possible.
Article 32
Omission or inadequate compliance with obligations
1 – Bodies which negligently fail to comply with the obligation to notify the public
authority of the processing of personal data referred to in No. 1 and No. 5 of Article 21,
provide false information or comply with the obligation to notify without observing
Article 23 or, having been notified by the public authority, continue to allow access to
open data transmission networks to controllers who fail to comply with the provisions of
this Act are committing an administrative offence punishable with the following fines:
(1) In the case of a natural person, a minimum of MOP2,000 and a maximum of
MOP20,000;
(2) In the case of a legal person or a body without legal personality, a minimum of
MOP10,000 and a maximum of MOP100,000.
2 – The fine shall be increased to double the maxima in the case of data subject to prior
authorisation according to Article 22.
Article 33
Other administrative offences
1 – Bodies which fail to comply with obligations in Articles 5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17 and
No. 3 of Article 25 are committing an administrative offence punishable with a minimum
fine of MOP4,000 and a maximum of MOP40,000.
2 - In the case of failure to comply with the obligations in Articles 6, 7, 8, 9, 19 and 20,
the administrative offence is punishable with a fine of MOP8,000 – MOP80,000.
Article 34
Concurrent offences
1 - If the same fact is simultaneously a crime and an administrative offence the agent shall
always be punished by virtue of the crime.
2 – The penalties applied to concurrent administrative offences shall always be materially
accumulated.

17

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 35
Punishment of negligence and attempt
1 – Negligence shall always be punished in relation to the administrative offences
provided for in Article 33.
2 - Any attempt to commit the administrative offences provided for in Articles 32 and 33
shall always be liable to punishment.
Article 36
Application of fines
1 – The public authority is responsible for the application of the fines provided for in this
Act.
2 – The decision of the public authority shall be enforceable if it is not challenged within
the statutory period.

SECTION III
Crimes
Article 37
Non-compliance with obligations relating to data protection
1 –Any person who intentionally:
(1) omits notification or the application for authorisation referred to in Articles 21 and 22;
(2) provides false information in the notification or in applications for authorisation for
the processing of personal data or makes alterations in the latter which are not
permitted by the legalisation instrument;
(3) misappropriates or uses personal data in a form incompatible with the purpose of the
collection or with the legalisation instrument;
(4) promotes or carries out an illegal combination of personal data;
(5) fails to comply with the obligations provided for in this Act or in other data protection
legislation when the time limit fixed by the public authority for complying with them
has expired;
(6) continues to allow access to open data transmission networks to controllers who fail to
comply with the provisions of this Act after notification by the public authority not to
do so,
shall be liable to up to one year’s imprisonment or a fine of up to 120 days.
2 – The penalty shall be increased to double the maxima in the case of the personal data
referred to in Articles 7 and 8.

18

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 38
Undue access
1 – Any person who without due authorisation gains access by any means to personal data
prohibited to him shall be liable to up to one year’s imprisonment or a fine of up to 120
days, if a more severe punishment is not to be enforced due to a specific law.
2 - The penalty shall be increased to double the maxima when access:
(1) is achieved by means of violating technical security rules;
(2) allows the agent or third parties to obtain knowledge of the personal data;
(3) provides the agent or third parties with a benefit or material advantage.
3 – In the case of No. 1 criminal proceedings are dependent upon a complaint.
Article 39
Invalidation or destruction of personal data
1 – Any person who without due authorisation erases, destroys, damages, deletes or
changes personal data, making them unusable or affecting their capacity for use, shall be
liable to up to two years’ imprisonment or a fine of up to 240 days, if a more severe
punishment is not to be enforced due to a specific law.
2 - The penalty shall be increased to double the maxima if the damage caused is
particularly serious.
3 – If the agent acts with negligence as referred to in the previous two numbers the
penalty in both cases shall be up to one year’s imprisonment or a fine of up to 120 days.
Article 40
Qualified non-compliance
1 – Any person who after being notified to do so does not interrupt, cease or block the
processing of personal data shall be subject to a penalty corresponding to the crime of
qualified non-compliance.
2 – The same penalty shall apply to any person who after being notified:
(1) without just cause refuses to provide his cooperation specifically required by the
public authority;
(2) does not erase or totally or partially destroy the personal data;
(3) does not destroy the personal data after the period for keeping them provided for in
Article 5 has elapsed.

19

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 41
Violation of the duty of secrecy
1 – Any person bound by professional secrecy according to the law who without just
cause and without due consent reveals or discloses personal data, totally or in part, shall
be liable to up to two years’ imprisonment or a fine of up to 240 days, if a more severe
punishment is not to be enforced due to a specific law.
2 - The penalty shall be increased by half the maxima if the agent:
(1) is a civil servant or equivalent, according to penal law;
(2) acts with the intention of obtaining a material advantage or other unlawful gain;
(3) adversely affects the reputation, honour and esteem or the privacy of another person.
3 – A person guilty of negligence shall be liable to up to six months’ imprisonment or a
fine of up to 120 days.
4 – Other than the cases provided for in No. 2, criminal proceedings are dependent upon a
complaint.
Article 42
Punishment of attempt
Any attempt to commit the crimes provided for in this Section shall always be liable to
punishment.

SECTION IV
Additional penalty
Article 43
Additional penalty
The following may be ordered in addition to the fines and penalties provided for in
Sections II and III in this Chapter when applied:
(1) temporary or permanent prohibition of processing, blocking, erasure or total or partial
destruction of data;
(2) publication of the judgement;
(3) public warning or censure of the controller by the public authority.

20

-- Unofficial Translation --

-- For Reference Only--

Article 44
Publication of judgement
1 – The judgement shall be published at the expense of the person judged in the
periodicals with the largest circulation published, one in Chinese and one in Portuguese,
and by means of affixing a notice for a period of no less than 30 days.
2 – Publication shall be done by means of a summary containing information on the
offence and the penalties applied and the identification of the agent.

CHAPTER IX
Final provisions
Article 45
Transitional provision
1 – The processing of data held in manual filing systems on the date of the entry into
force of this Act shall be brought into conformity with Articles 7, 8, 10 and 11 within two
years.
2 – At his request the data subject may in any event, in particular when exercising the
right of access, obtain the rectification, erasure or blocking of incomplete or inaccurate
data or data kept in a manner incompatible with the legitimate purposes of the controller.
3 - The public authority may provide that the data held in manual filing systems and kept
solely for the purposes of historical research need not be brought into conformity with
Articles 7, 8 and 9, provided they are in no case reused for a different purpose.
Article 46
Entry into force
This Act comes into force on the 180th day following its publication.

Approved on 4 August 2005.
The President of the Legislative Council, Susana Chou.
Signed on 10 August 2005.
Hereby published.
The Chief Executive, HO HAU WAH.

21

