澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Guidelines on publication of personal data on the Internet

As Internet becomes popular, more and more people use it as a medium for data
disclosure and transmission, which involves personal data to a great extent. For
example, a government agency displays on its webpage a top-down list of exam
results of a recruitment exam; a school posts online a list of its awarded students with
their photos; an individual uploads his or her friend’s photos to a webpage and blog;
another posts a celebrity’s picture on an online forum … and so on. While Law
8/2005 (the Personal Data Protection Act) becomes better known to the public, more
and more citizens start wondering whether practices like these are subject to the
provisions of the Act. If they are, do they constitute any undue restriction on freedom
of speech and freedom of the press?
With these considerations, this Office has prepared the following guidelines for
the general public.

I．The application of the Personal Data Protection Act
1.

The application of the Act
Article 3 of the Personal Data Protection Act provides that:
“1) This Act shall apply to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by
automatic means, and to the processing other than automatic means of personal
data which form part of manual filing systems or which are intended to form part
of manual filing systems.
2) This Act shall not apply to the processing of personal data carried out by a
natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activities, save
those with the purposes of systematic communication or dissemination.
3) This Act shall apply to video surveillance and other forms of capture,
processing and dissemination of sounds and images allowing persons to be
identified, provided the controller is domiciled or based in the f Macao Special
Administrative Region (the MSAR) or makes use of a computer or data
communication network access provider established on the MSAR territory.
……”

Article 4, Paragraph 1, Subparagraph (1) of the Personal Data Protection Act
defines personal data as “any information of any type, irrespective of the type of
1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
medium involved, including sound and image, relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person (“data subject”); an identifiable person is one who can be identified,
directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an indication number or to one or
more factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or
social identity”.
Therefore, when information published on the Internet by institutions or
individuals relates to “an identified or identifiable natural person”, including sound
and image, such publication is subject to the provisions of the Personal Data
Protection Act.
An exception to this provision can be found in the case where data processing by
a natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activity, given that it
is not for systematic communication or dissemination. Under the circumstance, the
person responsible for the disclosure must be the natural person (an individual); the
purposes of the disclosure must pertain to a “purely personal or household activity”.
Given that the Internet is itself a medium which lends to systematic data
communication or dissemination, the person who discloses such data must take
adequate and effective restriction measures to allow access to only certain identified
family members, relatives or friends. For instance, having returned from a trip,
someone uploads to his personal website pictures of himself and his friends spending
time together during the journey; the webpage is password protected, allowing access
only to his family members and friends. Such a case satisfies the conditions of
exception, to which the Personal Data Protection Act does not apply.
Another exception is where the data disclosed on the Internet relate only to the
person who made the disclosure, as in the case of someone posting his or her own
pictures online. While the law respects people’s right to handle and use their own
personal data, and the Act does not intervene in this sort of practice, this Office
advises that the data subjects should be prudent when posting their personal data
online. If they choose to do so, disclose only such data that do not compromise their
legal rights and interests, in a way that does not violate any law.
In general, apart from the exceptions mentioned above, publishing personal data
online by institutions or individuals is subject to the provisions of the Personal Data
Protection Act.

2.

Publication of personal data on an intranet
Special attention should be paid the difference between the Internet and an
2

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
intranet. Most institutions have their own intranets that allow access only to their staff,
in which the contents relate to an institution’s internal affairs exclusively. Given that
data processing on an intranet is the institution’s “internal affair”, and that the users
are its employees, posting personal data on an intranet may be viewed as the
institution’s internal personal data processing. While such processing is nonetheless
subject to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, it is different from
disclosing personal data on the Internet. However, once the users of an intranet begins
to include people other than the institution’s staff, as in the case of an educational
institution (where students may become users), or an instance of data processing
beyond the scope of internal affairs (as in the case of an institution’s forum on which
staff choose to disclose information), then it should be deemed equivalent to
disclosing personal data on the Internet, to which the guidelines herein become
applicable.

II．Data controllers
Where personal data disclosure falls in the scope of application of the Personal
Data Protection Act, it is necessary to identify the Data controllers as defined by law.
Article 4, Paragraph 1, Subparagraph (5) of the Personal Data Protection Act
defines a data controller as “the natural or legal person, public entity, agency or any
other body which alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of
the processing of personal data”. Obviously, the key factor in the identification is the
right to determine and control the data processing.
Example 1: staff travel photos – (Part 1)
Following a morale-rallying staff travel, company X instructs its employee Y to
post on the company intranet some staff’s pictures taken during the journey.
Company X is the party that decides on and controls the posting; therefore, it is the
data controller in this instance of data processing whereas employee Y is not.
If employee Y also posts on his personal website or the company’s online
forum some pictures of himself together with other staff, then he becomes the party
in control of the posting and thus becomes another data controller. Moreover,
regarding employee Y’s posting on X’s online forum, company X is nonetheless
responsible for maintaining the online forum and, in accordance with the related
terms and conditions, may manage its content by deleting, screening or denying
access to certain users, etc. Therefore, X also possesses some right of control and
decision, and hence is also a data controller in this case.
3

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Data controllers must abide by the Personal Data Protection Act, and be
responsible for their breach of the Act.

III．The legality of data sources
Article 2 and Article 5 of the Personal Data Protection Act provide that personal
data posted on the Internet should be legally collected in the first place.
Sometimes data published on the Internet are collected by illegal means in the
first place. For instance, an employee of a company defaults his obligation of
confidentiality and posts on his personal website an entertainer’s personal data in the
company’s possession; an individual hacks into a company’s computer server, steals
certain customers data and uploads them to his personal website. Publishing illegally
collected personal data online may constitute administrative offence or crime as
defined in the Act, or crime defined in others laws (e.g. Law Against Computer
Crime). The guilty parties will have to take the related legal consequences.

IV．Criteria of legitimacy for data processing
Even if personal data are legally collected in the first place, it does not follow that
publishing such data online will also be legal. For instance, the fact that a person’s (A)
friend (B) voluntarily gives his phone number and address to A does not mean that A
may legally post them on his personal website. Whenever any institution or individual
intends to publish personal data online, their publication must satisfy the criteria of
legitimacy provided for in the Personal Data Protection Act.

1. General criteria of legitimacy for data processing
Article 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act provides that publication of personal
data on the Internet must at least satisfy one of the following criteria of legitimacy:
(1) with the unambiguous consent of the data subjects;
(2) for the performance of a contract or to take steps to entering one;
(3) for compliance with a legal obligation;
4

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
(4) to protect the vital interests of the data subject who is unable to consent;
(5) for the performance of a task for the public interest or in the exercise of
official authority;
(6) for an overriding legitimate interests;
In general, obtaining the consent of the data subjects is relatively a simple and
straightforward approach; but care must be taken to allow the data subjects to freely
object or withdraw their consent; and once their consent is withdrew, given that no
other criteria of legitimacy is met, the data processing in question becomes no longer
legitimate.

Example 2: Posting a picture of two persons on a personal website
Someone (A) posted on his personal website a picture of himself and another
person (B) with B’s consent; but later B changed his mind and withdrew the
consent. As A is in no position to meet the other criteria of legitimacy for posting the
picture, A must immediately delete the picture from his website and should no
longer make it public.

Where a data controller is unable to obtain data subjects’ unambiguous consent,
nor does he want to rely on such consent for publishing personal data, then he must
meet one of the other five criteria of legitimacy.

Example 3: Online publication of a news commentator’s brief biography – ( Part 1)
A website master (A) has entered a service contract with a news commentator
(B), which stipulates that B should write for the website every week and get paid for
it, and that the website should have the right to disclose B’s brief biography online.
Website master A can then meet the criteria of legitimacy for his data processing by
this contractual provision.

2. Criteria of legitimacy for processing sensitive data
According to Article 7 of the Personal Data Protection Act, sensitive personal
5

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
data include personal data revealing philosophical or political beliefs, political
society or trade union membership, religion, privacy and racial or ethnic origin, data
concerning health or sex life, including genetic data. The law in principle prohibits
the processing of sensitive personal data, with derogations for processing under one of
the following circumstances, with guarantees of non-discrimination and with the
security measures provided for in Articles 15 and 16:
(1) when the processing is authorized by legal provisions;
(2) when the processing is on important public interests ground and authorized by
the Office for Personal Data Protection;
(3) when the data subject has given his explicit consent;
(4) when it is necessary to protect the vital interest of the data subject or of another
person, and the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving his
consent;
(5) when it is carried out with the data subject’s consent in the courses of it is
legitimate activities by a legal person or non-profit seeking body with a
political, philosophical, religious or trade union aim and on certain conditions;
(6) when it relates to data which are manifestly made public by the data subject,
provided his consent for their processing can be clearly inferred from his
declarations;
(7) when it is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims
and is exclusively carried out for that purpose;
(8) when the processing of data relating to health and sex life, including genetic
data, is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine, medical diagnosis,
the provision of care or treatment or the management of health-care services;
In most cases, online publication of sensitive data relies on (3) or (6) of the
above.

Example 3: Online publication of a news commentator’s brief biography – ( Part 2)
Let us carry on the example of website A and news commentator B for our
discussion. Suppose B is a cancer patient, and website A sees a good example in him
for the public and wants to publish this piece of health information to attract
attention and traffic to the website. If B has on other occasions made this
information public, and his consent for the disclosure of this information can be
clearly inferred from his declaration, then it is legitimate for website A to publish
this piece of B’s health data. If B explicitly consents website A to disclose his data
on the website (including verbal, written or provisions to this effect in the service
contract), website A also has the legitimacy to do so. However, if B simply consents
6

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
the website to process his data but does not indicate that the website may publish it
(for example, he provided this health information to website A in order to explain
that he could not provide articles for publication on time), this Office holds that
website A should not publish it, because here it evokes the application of Article 7,
Paragraph 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act, and therefore calls in the data
security requirement as provided for in Article 16 of the same law, which makes
public disclosure impractical. Under this circumstance, if website A does intend to
publish the data, it would be advisable for A to ask B’s explicit consent for it.

This Office would remind all institutions and individuals of the fact that, in order
to safeguard the data subjects’ rights, freedom and security, the Personal Data
Protection Act sets stringent regulations on personal data processing. Data controllers
should develop a proper understanding of the spirit of the law, and take measures to
respect data subject’s rights, avoiding online publication of other people’s sensitive
data.

3. Criteria of legitimacy for processing data relating to illegal activities
According to Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act, strict criteria of
legitimacy must be met before processing personal data relating to persons suspected
of illegal activities, criminal and administrative offences and decisions applying
penalties, security measures, fines and additional penalties.
In general, apart from government agencies that are invested with specific
powers by legal provisions, most other institutions or individuals do not have
legitimacy in processing such data, let alone disclosing such data online.
Under special circumstances, institutions and individuals may invoke Article 8,
Paragraph 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act for processing such data, if the
processing meets three conditions at the same time:
(1) it is necessary for pursuing the legitimate purposes of the controller;
(2) the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject are not overriding;
(3) it subjects to observance of the rules for the protection of data and the security
of information.
However, in general, given the rules for the protection of data and the security of
information, institutions and individuals may find it hard to claim that it is legitimate
7

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
for them to publish such data on the Internet by meeting these three conditions at the
same time, except some media institutions.

Example 4: Online disclosure of a theft’s personal data
A citizen X is convicted and sentenced to prison terms for stealing company
B’s belongings. To help with the police investigation, B has prepared and submitted
to the police some evidences that point to X’s theft offence; it is appropriate for B to
have done so. However, it is obviously illegitimate for B to have also made online
publication of the information relating to X on its website, including X’s name, the
offence X has committed and the prison terms X has been sentenced to, etc., even
though the disclosure is intended to warn others who may be inclined to commit the
same offence.

This Office would remind all institutions and individuals of the fact that, in order
to safeguard the data subjects’ rights, freedom and security, the Personal Data
Protection Act sets stringent regulations on personal data processing. Data controllers
should develop a proper understanding of the spirit of the law, and take measures to
respect data subject’s rights, avoiding online publication of personal data relating to
persons suspected of illegal activities, criminal and administrative offences and
decisions applying penalties, security measures, fines and additional penalties.

V．The principle of proportionality
Given that the data controller’s online publication of other people’s personal data
is legitimate, the data controller must nonetheless abide by the principle of
proportionality as provided for in the Personal Data Protection Act. In other words,
the publication must be “adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are collected and/or further processed”. Where it is sufficient
to disclose relatively few data or data that would have less impact on the data
subjects’ rights, freedom and safeguard, the data controller involved should not
disclose more data than necessary, or data that will affect the data subjects to a greater
extent.

8

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Example 5: Online publication of recruits list – (Part 1)
Institution A published online the list of its recruits in accordance with its
recruiting regulations, on which relied its legitimacy. However, the disclosed data
included names, exam permit numbers, identification documents numbers and cell
phone numbers of the recruits. Obviously, it would have been sufficient if the
institution had disclosed only names and exam permit numbers. The disclosure of
the recruits’ identification documents numbers and their cell phone numbers was in
fact in breach of the principle of proportionality.

VI．The rights of data subjects
The Personal Data Protection Act provides that data subjects have the right to
information, the right of access and to rectify, the right to object, the right not to be
subject to automated individual decisions and the right to indemnification.
Of these, the right to information, the right of access and to rectify, the right to
object and the right to indemnification are the major ones of data subjects that should
to be considered before making online publication of personal data.

1.

The right to information

Article 10 of the Personal Data Protection Act provides that, except where the
laws provide otherwise, in general, when a data controller collects personal data from
data subjects, the data controller or its representative should inform the data subjects
of the following, unless the data subjects are already aware of them:
(1) The identity of the controller or of its representative, if any;
(2) The purposes of the processing;
(3) Other information such as:
i.
ii.
iii.

The recipients or categories of recipients;
Whether replies are obligatory or voluntary, as well as the possible
consequences of failure to reply;
The existence and conditions of the right of access and the right to
rectify, provided they are necessary, taking account of the specific
circumstances of collection of the data in order to guarantee the data
subject that they will be processed fairly.
9

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Example 5: Online publication of recruits list – (Part 2)
Let us carry on the example of institution A making online publication of its
recruits list. When A collected data from job seekers in the first place, it should, by
appropriate means (such as a Personal Data Collection Statement or Recruitment
Terms), provide job seekers with relevant information including an indication that it
would publish online the recruits list, to satisfy the legal requirement and ensure that
the data subjects’ right to information be duly respected.

Where data processing is for journalistic purposes or the purposes of artistic and
literary expressions, there are some special provisions regarding the data subjects’
right to information, which we will discuss later.

2.

The right of access and to rectify

Article 11 of the Personal Data Protection Act provides that, except where the
laws provide otherwise, the data subject has the right to obtain from the controller
without constraint at reasonable intervals and without excessive delay or expense:
(1) Confirmation as to whether or not data relating to him are being processed
and information as to the purposes of the processing, the categories of data
concerned and the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data
are disclosed;
(2) Communication in an intelligible form of the data undergoing processing
and of any available information as to their source;
(3) Knowledge of the reason involved in any automatic processing of data
concerning him;
(4) The rectification, erasure or blocking of data the processing of which does
not comply with the provisions of this Act, in particular because of the
incomplete or inaccurate nature of the data;
(5) Notification to third parties to whom the data have been disclosed of any
rectification, erasure or blocking carried out in compliance with (4), in
which case the third parties are required to rectify, erase or block the data
accordingly, unless this proves impossible, or would involve a
disproportionate effort.
10

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Example 5: Online publication of recruits list – (Part 3)
Let us take the discussion further using example 5. Suppose a recruit (Y)
noticed that his name was on the recruits list, but against a wrong exam permit
number. Y exercised his right of access to see if anything was wrong. Later,
Institution A verified that another person’s exam permit number was listed against
Y’s name due to a system error. Given this is the case, Y might exercise his right to
rectify by demanding Institution A to correct the erroneous data.

For processing of data solely for journalistic purposes or the purposes of artistic
and literary expressions, the right of access is exercised through this Office, securing
the rules applicable, in particular those guaranteeing freedom of expression and
information, freedom of the press and the professional independence and secrecy of
journalists. The application forms for this purpose is available for download on the
Office’s website.
Apart from that, the data controller must seriously consider its relationship with
the data source if the data subjects exercise rights of access to find out the data source
but the data source is a natural person. In certain cases, the data source may be a user
of the data controller’s services, as in the relationship between the host of an internet
forum and its users. Under this circumstance, the data controller must ensure that the
user’s personal data is also duly safeguarded, and avoid unnecessarily disclosing data
to a third party on no legal grounds. When facing situations related to personal data of
different data subjects, data controllers must be prudent, and should consult legal
opinions whenever it is necessary.

3.

The right to object

According to Article 12, Paragraph1 of the Personal Data Protection Act, save
where otherwise provided by law, the data subject has the right to object at any time
on compelling legitimate grounds relating to his particular situation to the processing
of data relating to him, and where there is a justified objection the processing
instigated by the controller may no longer involve those data.
This is the case when a data subject objects to an institution or individual
regarding its publication online of his personal data after his knowledge, demanding
11

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
that his data be removed from the website. The data controller should respond to the
request as soon as possible. In reality, the institution or individual may have no
legitimacy to process such data, or in violation of the legal provisions regarding the
data subjects’ right to information, etc., but the data subjects do not intend to charge
the offender. For example, person A discloses a friend B’s photos online without B’s
knowledge or consent. For this data processing in breach of legal provisions on
personal data protection, the data subject is exercising his right to object and the right
to rectify at the same time. According to the provisions of the right to rectify, the data
subject can demand rectification, erasure or blocking of data the processing of which
does not comply with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. In line with
the principle that the rights of data subjects should be claimed by the data subjects,
this Office in general does not intervene in cases where the data subjects do not lodge
complaints or press charges against those who infringed on their rights. However, the
data controller should not take this to mean that its conduct is lawful. Should it
infringe on the data subjects’ rights to objection and rectification, it will be brought to
bear the legal consequences when complaint is lodged with this Office or law suit is
brought against it.
It is also common to find more than one data controller involved in a case, where
data subjects may raise objection to any of them. Any data controllers receiving data
subjects’ objection must, to the best of its ability, take the required measures on its
own. They may not refuse to take action on the pretext that other data controllers are
also involved.

Example 1: Staff travel photos – (Part 2)
Let us take example 1 further. Suppose employee Y posts some travel photos of
himself together with his colleagues on the staff online forum of company X. While
company X is a data controller, if employee Z, whose image is involved, chooses to
object to the posting, Z may raise his objection to employee Y as well as company
X, demanding that the photos be removed. Company X should nonetheless act in
compliance with the law by removing or screening the photos, after receiving the
request from employee Z, even if employee Y chooses not to do so.

4.

The right not to be subject to automatic individual decisions

According to Article 13 of the Personal Data Protection Act, unless the laws
provide otherwise, every person shall have the right not to be subject to a decision
12

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
which produces legal effects concerning him or significantly affects him and which is
based solely on automated processing of data intended to evaluate certain personal
aspects relating to him, in particular his performance at work, creditworthiness,
reliability or conduct.
Online publication of personal data rarely involves violation of this right of the
data subjects.

5.

The right to indemnification

According to Article 14 of the Personal Data Protection Act, any person who has
suffered damage as a result of an unlawful processing operation or of any other act
incompatible with legal provisions or regulations in the area of personal data
protection is entitled to receive compensation from the controller for the damage
suffered. The controller may be exempted from this liability, in whole or in part, if he
proves that he is not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.
Where a data controller inappropriately publishes other people’s personal data,
and these data subjects have suffered as a result, they may claim compensation from
the controller.

VII. Journalistic, artistic and literary expression and freedom of speech
Article 27 of the Basic Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region
provides that “Macao residents shall have freedom of speech, of the press and of
publication…” Article 30 of the same law provides that “the human dignity of Macao
residents shall be inviolable…Macao residents shall enjoy the right to personal
reputation and the privacy of their private and family life.” Article 32 provides that
“the freedom and privacy of communication of Macao residents shall be protected by
law…”
As in most countries and regions, freedom of speech, of the press and of
publication is one of the fundamental rights, as is the right to personal data privacy,
which are in parallel to each other. In exercising one right one must take the other into
due account. In other words, one should attempt to strike a balance between the two
using the principles of lawfulness, of good faith and of proportionality.
Article 29 Data Protection Working Party points out in its “Recommendation
13

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
1/97 - Data protection law and the media” that “the two fundamental rights must not
be seen as inherently conflicting. In the absence of adequate safeguards for privacy
individuals may be reluctant to freely express their ideas…” The controversial
phenomenon of “online personal identity hunt (human fresh search engine)” in recent
years may come in as a good example: If you air your personal opinion online, those
who are opposed to your opinion will search for your personal data and compile them
and disclose them to the public, it is obvious what your freedom of speech will end up
in.
Regarding the safeguards of “freedom of speech, of the press and of publication”,
the Personal Data Protection Act has provided for certain special device of safeguards,
especially by means of restricting the exercise of right to information, right of access
and right to rectify. As far as the right to information is concerned, Article 10,
Paragraph 6 of the Act provides that with respect to the basic right of the data subject
under Article 11, Paragraph 3, the obligation to provide information under Article 10
shall not apply to the processing of data carried out solely for journalistic purposes or
the purpose of artistic or literary expression. As to the right of access and to rectify,
Article 11, Paragraph 3 provides that it is exercised through this Office, securing the
rules applicable, in particular those guaranteeing freedom of expression and
information, freedom of the press and the professional independence and secrecy of
journalists. Article 11, Paragraph 4 provides that under the circumstances provided for
in Article 11, Paragraph 3, if communication of the data might prejudice freedom of
expression and information or the freedom of the press, this Office shall only inform
the data subject of the measures taken within the limits of maintaining the targeted
value of protection described therein.

1. The publishing institutions
Regarding the safeguards and restrictions on freedom of speech, of the press and
of publication, and the safeguards of the data subjects, Law No. 7/90/M (the
Publication Law) has relevant provisions for them. From the perspective of the
Personal Data Protection Act, if a publishing institution chooses to publish personal
data online, its legitimacy should base on the following:
(1) For the overall data processing, apart from the data subjects’ unambiguous
consent, legitimacy can be from pursuing the legitimate interests of the
publishing institution or the third party to whom the data are disclosed,
except where such interests should be overridden by the interests for
fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data subject, in
compliance with Article 6, Subparagraph (5) of the Act;
14

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
(2) For the processing of sensitive data, apart from the data subjects’ explicit
consent, legitimacy may be from provisions in Article 7, Paragraph 2,
Subparagraph (1), with authorization by the Publication Law;
(3) For the processing of personal data relating to persons suspected of illegal
activities, criminal and administrative offences and decisions applying
penalties, security measures, fines and additional penalties, according to
Article 8, Paragraph 2 of the Act, such processing may be carried out,
subject to observance of the rules for the protection of data and the security
of information, when it is necessary for pursuing the legitimate purposes of
the publishing institution, provided the fundamental rights and freedoms of
the data subject are not overriding.
If a publishing institution publishes personal data online, it must observe the
principles of data processing provided for in the Personal Data Protection Act,
including principle of proportionality, apart from meeting the criteria of legitimacy of
data processing. According to Chapter 5 of the Publication Law, such a publishing
institution shall be responsible for its illegal conduct committed in the course of
publishing.
Personal data processing by a publishing institution is diversified and is not
limited to online publication of personal data. Different institutions may have
different understandings on the legal provisions. This Office believes that a Code of
Conduct elaborated by the publishing sector as a way of self-regulation may be an
effective way to respect and protect the rights of personal data privacy, while at the
same time protecting the freedom of publication.

2. Other institutions and individuals
Much of the online publication of personal data is made by institutions and
individuals other than publishing institutions. In general, those data controllers do not
meet the criteria of legitimacy for processing personal data as provided by the
Publication Law. However, they do have the safeguards for freedom of speech and
freedom of artistic and literary expression, as provided by Article 27 and Article 37 of
the Basic Law of the Macao SAR.
Online publication of personal data for “artistic or literary expression” purposes
is likewise entitled to the safeguard provided for in the Personal Data Protection Act
by limiting the data subjects’ right to information, right of access and right to rectify.
Ordinary private or public institutions that publish personal data online are
15

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
generally not entitled to the above-mentioned safeguards, because their personal data
processing is not solely for journalistic, artistic or literary purposes.
Individuals who post other people’s personal data online tend to do so for airing
their personal opinions, ideals, etc., and the data they post are generally in the forms
of text, image or video-audio clips. Therefore, in certain cases where online
publication of personal data is meant for “artistic or literary” purposes, the people
who post the data are likewise entitled to the above-mentioned safeguard. For their
data processing to be legitimate, they would have to invoke Article 6, Subparagraph
(5) of the Act, if they do not have consent of the data subjects, and prove that their
posting is done in pursuit of their legitimate interests or that of “the third party to
whom the data are disclosed, provided such interests are not overridden by that of the
data subjects, or by their fundamental rights, freedom and safeguards.” As far as
sensitive data are concerned, however, it is generally illegitimate for individuals to
publish such data unless with explicit consent of the data subjects, or the data
concerned is already made public by the data subjects. As for processing of “personal
data relating to persons suspected of illegal activities, criminal and administrative
offences and decisions applying penalties, security measures, fines and additional
penalties”, individuals in general do not have the required legitimacy for publishing
them.
However, it must be emphasised that, regardless of such safeguards, institutions
or individuals that publish personal data online still must abide by the provisions of
the Personal Data Protection Act, including the principle of proportionality, and
respecting the data subjects’ right to object, etc., without prejudicing the provisions of
other current laws.

Example 6: Online display of photos concerning a public event
A photographer posted on his personal website some of his photography works
depicting a public event. The works contain clear images of certain identifiable
people. Given that the works were posted for artistic purposes without involving
sensitive data that require meeting special legal conditions, the author can do so
without the data subjects’ consent, without providing them with information as
required in the provisions of right to information. In this regard, the data subjects’
right to access is also restricted to some extent, the exercise of which should be done
through this Office. It is often the case that where such works concern certain public
figures, the photographer tends to add notes of person’s name and title, which
practice may generally still be of artistic nature, being proportionate. However, if the
notes also include the subject’s contact number or even identification document
16

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
number, it would be more than what “artistic expression” does, and the publication
of these photos would no longer be exempt from the data subject’s claim for their
right to information. In addition, it might also constitute a law breach for violating
the principle of proportionality.

3. Citation
Some institutions and individuals tend to include in their online publication
citations of content from other sources, in particular news excerpts (texts, videos,
sound tracks, etc.)
From the perspective of personal data protection, as far as a citation involves
personal data, the publication is subject to the provisions of the Personal Data
Protection Act. As the citation is posted somewhere other than the original data
controller’s sphere of control, by the logic of the previous analysis, the relevant data
controller is no longer the original source entity, but rather the current entity or
individual which publishes the cited content, sometimes including the webmaster of
the online forum, among others. If the citation has been edited, then the data
controller is even more obvious. In another aspect, even if the source of the citation is
a publishing institution, the citing parties is not, thus the citations are most likely not
solely for journalistic purposes. Whether a citation is for artistic or literary expression
purposes is also a question to which the answer depends on specific circumstances.

Example 7: Snap shots illegally taken in a hospital ward
Magazine A displays a photo with a caption of an entertainer receiving medical
care in a hospital ward. It was later found out that the photo had been secretly taken
by an employee of A who had slipped into the hospital ward and taken the pictures
as instructed by A. The victim later brought law suit against A, which would face its
responsibilities. Later, a person B duplicated on an online forum the photo and its
accompanying caption, and added his own note against the victim to it. As a result,
apart from the law suit B would have to face should the victim choose to make it, B
is also likely to be held responsible for violating the Personal Data Protection Act,
because B does not have the legitimacy to process the victim’s sensitive data.

17

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Example 8: indecent photos
Website B published some indecent photos related to someone’s private life,
which were soon widely spread on the Internet.
Y cited these indecent photos on an online forum, by directly posting photos
downloaded from website B. Later on, the victim charged Y for his violation of the
Personal Data Protection Act and some other laws. Y argued that those photos were
widely spread on the Internet and it was legal for him to download them. B claimed
that his freedom of expression to publicize personal opinion should not be restricted
because he collected the photos legally, and the one responsible for illegal conduct is
website B who is the source of those photos. In addition, Y argued that it was the
responsibility of the master of the online forum to manager it and ensure the legality
of photos uploaded and shown on the forum, he as an individual user should not be
responsible for posting those cited indecent photos on the forum.
Obviously, Y’s argument to shirk his legal responsibility is incorrect. As a legal
purchase of kitchen knife does not sufficiently mean that any usage of it will be then
legal, a legal collection of personal data does not sufficiently means that any
processing thereafter will be legal. In this case, although Y collected the victim’s
sensitive data without violating any legal provisions, his publication of the cited data
thereafter was abided by the provision of the Personal Data Protection Act. It was a
violation of the Personal Data Protection Act because he had no legitimacy to
publish the victim’s sensitive data.
However, Y’s argument that the master of the online forum should be
responsible is correct. As we discussed previously, master of the online forum is
another data controller, and should be responsible for its data processing. When the
master discovers the infringement, it should take measures as soon as possible to
delete or block the data. This is not an infringement to the freedom of speech of Y,
but a legal protection of the victim’s personal data.
This Office advises that, where individuals need to cite any content containing
personal data disclosed by other institutions or individuals, including media content,
apart from avoiding violating the copy right of the source institution, they should also
be very clear about the purposes for which they are processing the data, meet the
criteria of legitimacy and the principle of proportionality, etc., make sure to abide by
the Personal Data Protection Act and other relevant laws and regulations, and duly
respect the data subjects’ rights. If, indeed, they do need to cite anything, they should
better do so by providing the source URL, or by proper indication of the source of
information.
18

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

VIII. Transfer of data outside Macao
According to Articles 19 and 20 of the Personal Data Protection Act, transfer of
personal data outside Macao SAR should be subject to restrictions by law.
If a data controller is situated in Macao and processes personal data in Macao,
but the website on which it publishes personal data is located outside Macao, or the
entity maintaining the website (including the ISP) is situated outside Macao, the data
controller should be regarded as having transferred the personal data outside Macao.
If a data controller is situated in Macao and processes personal data in Macao,
and the website on which it publishes personal data is also in Macao and under its
control, but the data controller uses IT equipment (such as a computer server) situated
outside Macao to process the data, it should also be regarded as having transferred the
data outside Macao.
If a data controller is situated in Macao and processes personal data in Macao,
and the website on which it publishes personal data is also in Macao and is
maintained and controlled by an entity that is situated in Macao, technically speaking,
institutions and individuals stationed outside Macao may still access the data by
visiting the website. With reference to case precedence and related opinions of the EU,
this Office holds the opinion that, in general, if the data controller intends to provide
the personal data to specific institutions or people outside Macao, then it should be
viewed as transfer of personal data outside Macao; however, if the data controller
does not intend to provide the personal data to specific institutions or people outside
Macao, it may not be viewed as transfer of personal data outside Macao.

Example 9: Transfer of personal data through the website
Association A holds different conference frequently, and has its own website. A
has elaborated its privacy policy for its personal data processing for organization of
activities, in which it is said that personal data can be transferred outside Macao
with data subject’s consent. A has notified this Office.
Recently, A held a Conference on legal reform, and invited some scholars
outside Macao to come and give speeches, including a professor X of University B
in Portugal.
19

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
After the conference, A published some photos of this event. A’s objective was
to introduce and promote its activities, but not to provide these photos to specific
institutions. Therefore, this processing was not transfer of personal data, hence not
transfer of personal data outside Macao, although people far away in Portugal could
browse these photos.
Later on, University B in Portugal contacted A. B claimed that it wanted to use
some photos of X delivering speech in this event, but the size of photos on A’s
website was too small to fit its purpose, and B requested A to provide the original
files of the photos. After getting X’s consent, A decided to provide B these photo
files. However, it was not easy to send them to B because of the number and size of
photo files. A then uploaded the files in a certain position on its website, and
provided the link to B for download. After B’s download, A deleted these files
immediately. Without password protection, theoretically anyone who knew the link
could download these photos in this interval, and then A believed that it was
publishing the data rather than transferring them to University B, therefore not a
transfer of data outside Macao. However, from the general picture in this case,
obviously A’s operation is to provide University B in Portugal the photo files
through its website. It was a transfer of data, and a transfer of data outside Macao.
In this case, A had X’s consent, had a related privacy policy and had notified
this Office, and then the transfer was in compliance with the Personal Data
Protection Act. However, this Office holds the opinion that, such operation of data
transfer is somehow risky in terms of data security. If the data are not simple photos
in a public event, but sensitive data or data that may bring negative effect on the
data subject, a better way is to protect the data with proper informatics technologies,
like password protection, to prevent people other than University B from obtaining
them easily.

If the data controller is situated outside Macao but part of the data processing is
in Macao, circumstances may be complicated and the judgment on whether it is a
transfer of data outside Macao must be based on specific circumstances of the case.
The essence of the Act is to safeguard Macao residents’ personal data, by
preventing them from being inappropriately transferred to a place without adequate
personal data protection, to avoid the rights and interests of the data subjects being
infringed upon. Unless it is necessary, any institution or individual should not transfer
personal data outside Macao. If indeed any person chooses to transfer personal data
outside Macao, they must abide by the provisions of Articles 19 and 20 of the
Personal Data Protection Act.
20

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

IX. The obligation of notification and application for authorization
The Personal Data Protection Act lists quite a few circumstances under which
data controllers must notify this Office or apply for authorization of this Office. With
the consideration that this Office is gradually implementing the regime of notification
under the provision of Articles 21 to 25 of the Personal Data Protection Act, this
Office will not discuss further about the practical procedures or issues in this regime,
which will be regulated by related legal provisions in the future.

X. Penalty
The administrative and legal supervision of personal data protection is provided
for in Chapter VIII of the Personal Data Protection Act. Many behaviors violating the
Personal Data Protection Act may constitute administrative offences or crime. All
institutions and individuals should pay attention to the provisions of the Personal Data
Protection Act, avoid being punished for their non-compliance.

XI. Conclusion
As Internet becomes popular, personal data disclosure and transmission online
becomes more and more common. It brings the discussion on how to process such
data in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act, and how to strike a balance
between two fundamental rights - right of personal data privacy and freedom of
speech. Regarding how institutions and individuals can publishes personal data online
in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act, this Office has prepared these
guidelines for reference with some brief legal analysis. This Office hopes that all of us
can utilize the information technology properly, respect the data subjects, process and
protect personal data legally when using new technologies and new means of data
processing.

The Office for Personal Data Protection
January 2011
21

