Personal Data Protection

LAWS OF MALAYSIA
Act 709
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT 2010

1

2

Date of Royal Assent

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

...

...

2 June 2010

Date of publication in the
Gazette
...
...

...

10 June 2010

Publisher’s Copyright C
PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording and/or otherwise without the prior permission of Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Berhad
(Appointed Printer to the Government of Malaysia).

Personal Data Protection
LAWS OF MALAYSIA

Act 709

PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT 2010

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY

Section

1.

Short title and commencement

2.

Application

3.

Non-application

4.

Interpretation
PART II
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION

Division 1
Personal Data Protection Principles
5.

Personal Data Protection Principles

6.

General Principle

7.

Notice and Choice Principle

8.

Disclosure Principle

9.

Security Principle

10.

Retention Principle

11.

Data Integrity Principle

12.

Access Principle

3

4

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Division 2
Registration
Section

13.

Application of this Division

14.

Registration of data users

15.

Application for registration

16.

Certificate of registration

17.

Renewal of certificate of registration

18.

Revocation of registration

19.

Surrender of certificate of registration

20.

Register of Data Users
Division 3
Data user forum and code of practice

21.

Data user forum

22.

Register of Data User Forums

23.

Code of practice

24.

Commissioner may issue code of practice

25.

Applicable code of practice

26.

Revocation, etc., of code of practice

27.

Submission of new code of practice by data user forum

28.

Register of Codes of Practice

29.

Non-compliance with code of practice
Division 4
Rights of data subject

30.

Right of access to personal data

31.

Compliance with data access request

32.

Circumstances where data user may refuse to comply with data access
request

33.

Notification of refusal to comply with data access request

34.

Right to correct personal data

35.

Compliance with data correction request

Personal Data Protection

5

Section

36.

Circumstances where data user may refuse to comply with data correction
request

37.

Notification of refusal to comply with data correction request

38.

Withdrawal of consent to process personal data

39.

Extent of disclosure of personal data

40.

Processing of sensitive personal data

41.

Repeated collection of personal data in same circumstances

42.

Right to prevent processing likely to cause damage or distress

43.

Right to prevent processing for purposes of direct marketing

44.

Record to be kept by data user
PART III
EXEMPTION

45.

Exemption

46.

Power to make further exemptions
PART IV
APPOINTMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF COMMISSIONER

47.

Appointment of Commissioner

48.

Functions of Commissioner

49.

Powers of Commissioner

50.

Appointment of Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners

51.

Appointment of other officers and servants

52.

Loans and advances to officers and servants

53.

Tenure of office

54.

Revocation of appointment and resignation

55.

Temporary exercise of functions and powers of Commissioner

56.

Vacation of office

57.

Remuneration and allowances

58.

Delegation of Commissioner’s functions and powers

59.

Direction by Minister

60.

Returns, reports, accounts and information

6

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

PART V
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION FUND
Section

61.

Establishment of Fund

62.

Expenditure to be charged on Fund

63.

Conservation of Fund

64.

Reserve fund

65.

Financial year

66.

Limitation on contracts

67.

Bank accounts

68.

Accounts and audit

69.

Expenditure and preparation of estimates
PART VI
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE

70.

Establishment of Advisory Committee

71.

Functions of Advisory Committee

72.

Members of Advisory Committee

73.

Tenure of office

74.

Revocation of appointment and resignation

75.

Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman

76.

Vacation of office

77.

Allowances

78.

Time and place of meetings

79.

Advisory Committee may invite others to attend meetings

80.

Minutes

81.

Procedure

82.

Members to devote time to business of Advisory Committee
PART VII
APPEAL TRIBUNAL

83.

Establishment of Appeal Tribunal

84.

Powers of Appeal Tribunal

Personal Data Protection

7

Section

85.

Members of Appeal Tribunal

86.

Secretary to Appeal Tribunal and other officers, etc.

87.

Tenure of office

88.

Resignation and revocation of appointment

89.

Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman

90.

Vacation of office

91.

Allowances

92.

Disclosure of interest

93.

Appeal to Appeal Tribunal

94.

Record of decision of Commissioner

95.

Stay of decision pending appeal

96.

Composition of Appeal Tribunal

97.

Sitting of Appeal Tribunal

98.

Procedure of Appeal Tribunal

99.

Decision of Appeal Tribunal

100.

Enforcement of decision of Appeal Tribunal
PART VIII
INSPECTION, COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION

101.

Inspection of personal data system

102.

Relevant data user, etc., to be informed of result of inspection

103.

Reports by Commissioner

104.

Complaint

105.

Investigation by Commissioner

106.

Restriction on investigation initiated by complaint

107.

Commissioner may carry out or continue investigation initiated by
complaint notwithstanding withdrawal of complaint

108.

Enforcement notice

109.

Variation or cancellation of enforcement notice

8

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

PART IX
ENFORCEMENT
Section

110.

Authorized officers

111.

Authority card

112.

Power of investigation

113.

Search and seizure with warrant

114.

Search and seizure without warrant

115.

Access to computerized data

116.

Warrant admissible notwithstanding defects

117.

List of computer, book, account, etc., seized

118.

Release of computer, book, account, etc., seized

119.

No cost or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable

120.

Obstruction to search

121.

Power to require production of computer, book, account, etc.

122.

Power to require attendance of persons acquainted with case

123.

Examination of persons acquainted with case

124.

Admission of statements in evidence

125.

Forfeiture of computer, book, account, etc., seized

126.

Joinder of offences

127.

Power of arrest
PART X
MISCELLANEOUS

128.

Register

129.

Transfer of personal data to places outside Malaysia

130.

Unlawful collecting, etc., of personal data

131.

Abetment and attempt punishable as offences

132.

Compounding of offences

133.

Offences by body corporate

134.

Prosecution

135.

Jurisdiction to try offences

136.

Service of notices or other documents

Personal Data Protection

9

Section

137.

Public Authorities Protection Act 1948

138.

Public servant

139.

Protection against suit and legal proceedings

140.

Protection of informers

141.

Obligation of secrecy

142.

Things done in anticipation of the enactment of this Act

143.

Power to make regulations

144.

Prevention of anomalies
PART XI
SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

145.

Personal data processed before the date of coming into operation of this
Act

146.

Registration of persons who process personal data before the date of
coming into operation of this Act

10

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Personal Data Protection

11

LAWS OF MALAYSIA

Act 709

PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT 2010

An Act to regulate the processing of personal data in commercial
transactions and to provide for matters connected therewith and
incidental thereto.
[

]

ENACTED by the Parliament of Malaysia as follows:
PART I
PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Personal Data Protection
Act 2010.
(2) This Act comes into operation on a date to be appointed
by the Minister by notification in the Gazette, and the Minister
may appoint different dates for different provisions of this Act.
Application
2. (1) This Act applies to—
(a) any person who processes; and
(b) any person who has control over or authorizes the
processing of,
any personal data in respect of commercial transactions.

12

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) Subject to subsection (1), this Act applies to a person in
respect of personal data if—
(a) the person is established in Malaysia and the personal
data is processed, whether or not in the context of
that establishment, by that person or any other person
employed or engaged by that establishment; or
(b) the person is not established in Malaysia, but uses equipment
in Malaysia for processing the personal data otherwise
than for the purposes of transit through Malaysia.
(3) A person falling within paragraph (2)(b) shall nominate
for the purposes of this Act a representative established in
Malaysia.
(4) For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), each of the
following is to be treated as established in Malaysia:
(a) an individual whose physical presence in Malaysia shall
not be less than one hundred and eighty days in one
calendar year;
(b) a body incorporated under the Companies Act 1965
[Act 125];
(c) a partnership or other unincorporated association formed
under any written laws in Malaysia; and
(d) any person who does not fall within paragraph (a), (b)
or (c) but maintains in Malaysia—
(i) an office, branch or agency through which he
carries on any activity; or
(ii) a regular practice.
Non-application
3. (1) This Act shall not apply to the Federal Government and
State Governments.
(2) This Act shall not apply to any personal data processed
outside Malaysia unless that personal data is intended to be further
processed in Malaysia.

Personal Data Protection

13

Interpretation
4. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“credit reporting agency” has the meaning assigned to it in the
Credit Reporting Agencies Act 2010 [Act 710];
“this Act” includes regulations, orders, notifications and other
subsidiary legislation made under this Act;
“register” means the Register of Data Users, Register of Data
User Forums or Register of Codes of Practice;
“personal data” means any information in respect of commercial
transactions, which—
(a) is being processed wholly or partly by means of equipment
operating automatically in response to instructions given
for that purpose;
(b) is recorded with the intention that it should wholly or
partly be processed by means of such equipment; or
(c) is recorded as part of a relevant filing system or with
the intention that it should form part of a relevant filing
system,
that relates directly or indirectly to a data subject, who is
identified or identifiable from that information or from that and
other information in the possession of a data user, including any
sensitive personal data and expression of opinion about the data
subject; but does not include any information that is processed for
the purpose of a credit reporting business carried on by a credit
reporting agency under the Credit Reporting Agencies Act 2010;
“sensitive personal data” means any personal data consisting of
information as to the physical or mental health or condition of a
data subject, his political opinions, his religious beliefs or other
beliefs of a similar nature, the commission or alleged commission
by him of any offence or any other personal data as the Minister
may determine by order published in the Gazette;
“prescribed” means prescribed by the Minister under this Act
and where no mode is mentioned, means prescribed by order
published in the Gazette;

14

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

“Advisory Committee” means the Personal Data Protection
Advisory Committee established under section 70;
“vital interests” means matters relating to life, death or security
of a data subject;
“Fund” means the Personal Data Protection Fund established
under section 61;
“use”, in relation to personal data, does not include the act of
collecting or disclosing such personal data;
“collect”, in relation to personal data, means an act by which
such personal data enters into or comes under the control of a
data user;
“Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility
for the protection of personal data;
“disclose”, in relation to personal data, means an act by which
such personal data is made available by a data user;
“relevant person”, in relation to a data subject, howsoever
described, means—
(a) in the case of a data subject who is below the age of
eighteen years, the parent, guardian or person who has
parental responsibility for the data subject;
(b) in the case of a data subject who is incapable of managing
his own affairs, a person who is appointed by a court to
manage those affairs, or a person authorized in writing
by the data subject to act on behalf of the data subject;
or
(c) in any other case, a person authorized in writing by
the data subject to make a data access request, data
correction request, or both such requests, on behalf of
the data subject;
“authorized officer” means any officer authorized in writing
by the Commissioner under section 110;
“correction”, in relation to personal data, includes amendment,
variation, modification or deletion;

Personal Data Protection

15

“requestor”, in relation to a data access request or data correction
request, means the data subject or the relevant person on behalf
of the data subject, who has made the request;
“data processor”, in relation to personal data, means any
person, other than an employee of the data user, who processes
the personal data solely on behalf of the data user, and does not
process the personal data for any of his own purposes;
“processing”, in relation to personal data, means collecting,
recording, holding or storing the personal data or carrying out any
operation or set of operations on the personal data, including—
(a) the organization, adaptation or alteration of personal
data;
(b) the retrieval, consultation or use of personal data;
(c) the disclosure of personal data by transmission, transfer,
dissemination or otherwise making available; or
(d) the alignment, combination, correction, erasure or destruction
of personal data;
“registration” means the registration of a data user under
section 16;
“data user” means a person who either alone or jointly or in
common with other persons processes any personal data or has
control over or authorizes the processing of any personal data,
but does not include a data processor;
“relevant data user”, in relation to—
(a) an inspection, means the data user who uses the personal
data system which is the subject of the inspection;
(b) a complaint, means the data user specified in the
complaint;
(c) an investigation—
(i) in the case of an investigation initiated by a
complaint, means the data user specified in the
complaint;
(ii) in any other case, means the data user who is the
subject of the investigation;

16

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(d) an enforcement notice, means the data user on whom the
enforcement notice is served;
“credit reporting business” has the meaning assigned to it in
the Credit Reporting Agencies Act 2010;
“Commissioner” means the Personal Data Protection Commissioner
appointed under section 47;
“third party”, in relation to personal data, means any person
other than—
(a) a data subject;
(b) a relevant person in relation to a data subject;
(c) a data user;
(d) a data processor; or
(e) a person authorized in writing by the data user to process
the personal data under the direct control of the data
user;
“relevant filing system” means any set of information relating
to individuals to the extent that, although the information is
not processed by means of equipment operating automatically
in response to instructions given for that purpose, the set of
information is structured, either by reference to individuals or by
reference to criteria relating to individuals, in such a way that
specific information relating to a particular individual is readily
accessible;
“data subject” means an individual who is the subject of the
personal data;
“appointed date” means the relevant date or dates, as the case
may be, on which this Act comes into operation;
“code of practice” means the personal data protection code
of practice in respect of a specific class of data users registered
by the Commissioner pursuant to section 23 or issued by the
Commissioner under section 24;
“commercial transactions” means any transaction of a commercial
nature, whether contractual or not, which includes any matters
relating to the supply or exchange of goods or services, agency,

Personal Data Protection

17

investments, financing, banking and insurance, but does not include
a credit reporting business carried out by a credit reporting agency
under the Credit Reporting Agencies Act 2010.
PART II
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Division 1
Personal Data Protection Principles

Personal Data Protection Principles
5. (1) The processing of personal data by a data user shall
be in compliance with the following Personal Data Protection
Principles, namely—
(a) the General Principle;
(b) the Notice and Choice Principle;
(c) the Disclosure Principle;
(d) the Security Principle;
(e) the Retention Principle;
(f) the Data Integrity Principle; and
(g) the Access Principle,
as set out in sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
(2) Subject to sections 45 and 46, a data user who contravenes
subsection (1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be
liable to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand ringgit or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both.
General Principle
6. (1) A data user shall not—
(a) in the case of personal data other than sensitive personal
data, process personal data about a data subject unless
the data subject has given his consent to the processing
of the personal data; or
(b) in the case of sensitive personal data, process sensitive
personal data about a data subject except in accordance
with the provisions of section 40.

18

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(a), a data user may
process personal data about a data subject if the processing is
necessary—
(a) for the performance of a contract to which the data subject
is a party;
(b) for the taking of steps at the request of the data subject
with a view to entering into a contract;
(c) for compliance with any legal obligation to which the data
user is the subject, other than an obligation imposed by
a contract;
(d) in order to protect the vital interests of the data
subject;
(e) for the administration of justice; or
(f) for the exercise of any functions conferred on any person
by or under any law.
(3) Personal data shall not be processed unless—
(a) the personal data is processed for a lawful purpose directly
related to an activity of the data user;
(b) the processing of the personal data is necessary for or
directly related to that purpose; and
(c) the personal data is adequate but not excessive in relation
to that purpose.
Notice and Choice Principle
7. (1) A data user shall by written notice inform a data
subject—
(a) that personal data of the data subject is being processed
by or on behalf of the data user, and shall provide a
description of the personal data to that data subject;
(b) the purposes for which the personal data is being or is
to be collected and further processed;
(c) of any information available to the data user as to the
source of that personal data;
(d) of the data subject’s right to request access to and to
request correction of the personal data and how to
contact the data user with any inquiries or complaints
in respect of the personal data;

Personal Data Protection

19

(e) of the class of third parties to whom the data user discloses
or may disclose the personal data;
(f) of the choices and means the data user offers the data
subject for limiting the processing of personal data,
including personal data relating to other persons who
may be identified from that personal data;
(g) whether it is obligatory or voluntary for the data subject
to supply the personal data; and
(h) where it is obligatory for the data subject to supply the
personal data, the consequences for the data subject if
he fails to supply the personal data.
(2) The notice under subsection (1) shall be given as soon as
practicable by the data user—
(a) when the data subject is first asked by the data user to
provide his personal data;
(b) when the data user first collects the personal data of the
data subject; or
(c) in any other case, before the data user—
(i) uses the personal data of the data subject for a
purpose other than the purpose for which the
personal data was collected; or
(ii) discloses the personal data to a third party.
(3) A notice under subsection (1) shall be in the national and
English languages, and the individual shall be provided with a
clear and readily accessible means to exercise his choice, where
necessary, in the national and English languages.
Disclosure Principle
8. Subject to section 39, no personal data shall, without the
consent of the data subject, be disclosed—
(a) for any purpose other than—
(i) the purpose for which the personal data was to be
disclosed at the time of collection of the personal
data; or
(ii) a purpose directly related to the purpose referred
to in subparagraph (i); or

20

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(b) to any party other than a third party of the class of third
parties as specified in paragraph 7(1)(e).
Security Principle
9. (1) A data user shall, when processing personal data, take
practical steps to protect the personal data from any loss, misuse,
modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure,
alteration or destruction by having regard—
(a) to the nature of the personal data and the harm that
would result from such loss, misuse, modification,
unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure, alteration
or destruction;
(b) to the place or location where the personal data is
stored;
(c) to any security measures incorporated into any equipment
in which the personal data is stored;
(d) to the measures taken for ensuring the reliability, integrity
and competence of personnel having access to the personal
data; and
(e) to the measures taken for ensuring the secure transfer of
the personal data.
(2) Where processing of personal data is carried out by a data
processor on behalf of the data user, the data user shall, for the
purpose of protecting the personal data from any loss, misuse,
modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure,
alteration or destruction, ensure that the data processor—
(a) provides sufficient guarantees in respect of the technical
and organizational security measures governing the
processing to be carried out; and
(b) takes reasonable steps to ensure compliance with those
measures.
Retention Principle
10. (1) The personal data processed for any purpose shall
not be kept longer than is necessary for the fulfilment of that
purpose.

Personal Data Protection

21

(2) It shall be the duty of a data user to take all reasonable
steps to ensure that all personal data is destroyed or permanently
deleted if it is no longer required for the purpose for which it
was to be processed.
Data Integrity Principle
11. A data user shall take reasonable steps to ensure that the
personal data is accurate, complete, not misleading and kept
up-to-date by having regard to the purpose, including any directly
related purpose, for which the personal data was collected and
further processed.
Access Principle
12. A data subject shall be given access to his personal data
held by a data user and be able to correct that personal data
where the personal data is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or
not up-to-date, except where compliance with a request to such
access or correction is refused under this Act.
Division 2
Registration

Application of this Division
13. (1) This Division shall apply to a data user who belongs
to a class of data users as specified in the order made under
subsection 14(1).
(2) A data user who belongs to a class of data users not
specified in the order made under subsection 14(1) shall comply
with all the provisions of this Act other than the provisions of
this Division relating to the registration of data users and matters
connected thereto.
Registration of data users
14. (1) The Minister may, upon the recommendation of the
Commissioner, by order published in the Gazette, specify a class
of data users who shall be required to be registered as data users
under this Act.

22

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) The Commissioner shall, before making his recommendation
under subsection (1), consult with—
(a) such bodies representative of data users belonging to that
class; or
(b) such other interested persons.
Application for registration
15. (1) A person who belongs to the class of data users as
specified in the order made under subsection 14(1) shall submit
an application for registration to the Commissioner in the manner
and form as determined by the Commissioner.
(2) Every application for registration shall be accompanied
with the prescribed registration fee and such documents as may
be required by the Commissioner.
(3) The Commissioner may in writing at any time after receiving
the application and before it is determined, require the applicant
to provide such additional documents or information within the
time as specified by the Commissioner.
(4) If the requirement under subsection (3) is not complied
with, the application for registration shall be deemed to have been
withdrawn by the applicant and shall not be further proceeded with
by the Commissioner, but without prejudice to a fresh application
being made by the applicant.
Certificate of registration
16. (1) After having given due consideration to an application
under subsection 15(1), the Commissioner may—
(a) register the applicant and issue a certificate of registration
to the applicant in such form as determined by the
Commissioner; or
(b) refuse the application.
(2) The certificate of registration may be issued subject to
such conditions or restrictions as the Commissioner may think
fit to impose.

Personal Data Protection

23

(3) Where the Commissioner refuses the application for
registration in pursuance of subsection (1), he shall inform the
applicant by a written notice that the application has been refused
and the reasons for the refusal.
(4) A person who belongs to the class of data users as specified
in the order made under subsection 14(1) and who processes personal
data without a certificate of registration issued in pursuance of
paragraph 16(1)(a) commits an offence and shall, on conviction,
be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to
both.
Renewal of certificate of registration
17. (1) A data user may make an application for the renewal
of the certificate of registration not later than ninety days before
the date of expiry of the certificate of registration in the manner
and form as determined by the Commissioner and the application
shall be accompanied with the prescribed renewal fee and such
documents as may be required by the Commissioner, but no
application for renewal shall be allowed where the application is
made after the date of expiry of the certificate of registration.
(2) When renewing a certificate of registration, the Commissioner
may vary the conditions or restrictions imposed upon the issuance
of the certificate of registration or impose additional conditions
or restrictions.
(3) The Commissioner may refuse to renew a certificate of
registration—
(a) if the data user has failed to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act;
(b) if the data user has failed to comply with any conditions
or restrictions imposed upon the issuance of the certificate
of registration; or
(c) if he is satisfied that the data user is unable to continue
the processing of personal data in accordance with this
Act.

24

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Revocation of registration
18. (1) The Commissioner may revoke the registration of a data
user if the Commissioner is satisfied that—
(a) the data user has failed to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act;
(b) the data user has failed to comply with any conditions or
restrictions imposed upon the issuance of the certificate
of registration;
(c) the issuance of the certificate of registration was induced
by a false representation of fact by the data user; or
(d) the data user has ceased to carry on the processing of
personal data.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commissioner shall not
revoke the registration of a data user unless the Commissioner
is satisfied that, after giving the data user an opportunity of
making any representation in writing he may wish to make, the
registration should be revoked.
(3) Where the registration of the data user is revoked, the
Commissioner shall issue a notice of revocation of registration to
the data user, and the certificate of registration issued in respect
of such registration shall have no effect upon service of the notice
of revocation of registration.
(4) A data user whose registration has been revoked under
this section and who continues to process personal data thereafter
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
not exceeding five hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three years or to both.
Surrender of certificate of registration
19. (1) Where the certificate of registration is revoked in
pursuance of section 18, the holder of the certificate shall, within
seven days from the date of service of the notice of revocation
of registration, surrender the certificate to the Commissioner.
(2) A person who fails to comply with subsection (1) commits
an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding two years or to both.

Personal Data Protection

25

Register of Data Users
20. (1) The Commissioner shall maintain a Register of Data
Users in accordance with section 128.
(2) The Register of Data Users shall contain the names of
data users who have been registered in pursuance of this Division
and any other particulars regarding such data users as may be
determined by the Commissioner.
Division 3
Data user forum and code of practice

Data user forum
21. (1) The Commissioner may designate a body as a data user
forum in respect of a specific class of data users for the purposes
of this Act by notifying that body in writing, if the Commissioner
is satisfied that—
(a) the membership of the body is open to all data users of
that class;
(b) the body is capable of performing as required under the
relevant provisions of this Act; and
(c) the body has a written constitution.
(2) The body shall agree in writing to be a data user forum
before the designation is registered by the Commissioner in the
Register of Data User Forums.
(3) The Commissioner may decide that an existing body
that was previously designated as a data user forum under
subsection (1) is no longer a data user forum for the purposes
of this Act, if he is satisfied that the body no longer meets the
requirements as set out in that subsection.
(4) Where the Commissioner decides that an existing body
which has been designated as a data user forum is no longer a
data user forum for the purposes of this Act, he shall withdraw
the designation and subsequently cancel the registration of the
designation in the Register of Data User Forums.

26

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(5) A designation or withdrawal of designation under this
section shall take effect from the date of registration of the
designation or the date of cancellation of the registration of the
designation, as the case may be, or such later date as specified
by the Commissioner.
Register of Data User Forums
22. (1) The Commissioner shall maintain a Register of Data
User Forums in accordance with section 128.
(2) The Register of Data User Forums shall contain the
names of data user forums which have been designated and
registered in pursuance of this Division and any other particulars
regarding such data user forums as may be determined by the
Commissioner.
Code of practice
23. (1) A data user forum may prepare a code of practice—
(a) on its own initiative; or
(b) upon request by the Commissioner.
(2) The data user forum shall, in preparing a code of practice
under subsection (1), consider matters including—
(a) the purpose for the processing of personal data by the
data user or class of data users;
(b) the views of the data subjects or groups representing data
subjects;
(c) the views of the relevant regulatory authority, if any, to
which the data user is subject to; and
(d) that the code of practice, upon having regard to all of
the matters in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) and any other
matters, offers an adequate level of protection for the
personal data of the data subjects concerned.

Personal Data Protection

27

(3) The Commissioner may register the code of practice
prepared pursuant to subsection (1), if the Commissioner is
satisfied that—
(a) the code of practice is consistent with the provisions of
this Act; and
(b) the matters as set out in subsection (2) have been given
due consideration.
(4) The code of practice under subsection (1) shall take
effect on the date of registration of the code of practice by the
Commissioner in the Register of Codes of Practice.
(5) If the Commissioner refuses to register the code of practice,
the Commissioner shall notify the relevant data user forum of
his decision in writing and provide the reasons for it.
(6) If the Commissioner neither registers nor refuses to register
a code of practice within thirty days from the date of receipt of
the code of practice by him for registration, he shall be deemed
to have refused the registration of the code of practice.
(7) The Commissioner may register different codes of practice
for different classes of data users.
(8) The Commissioner and data user shall make available to
the public any code of practice registered under subsection (3).
Commissioner may issue code of practice
24. (1) The Commissioner may issue a code of practice, if—
(a) a code of practice is not prepared under paragraph
23(1)(a);
(b) the Commissioner is satisfied that a code of practice for
a specific class of data users is unlikely to be prepared
by the relevant data user forum within the period as
specified by the Commissioner; or
(c) there is no data user forum to develop the relevant code
of practice for the class of data users.

28

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) The Commissioner shall, before issuing a code of practice
under subsection (1), consider matters including—
(a) the purpose for the processing of personal data by the
data user or class of data users;
(b) the views of the data users or groups representing data
users, to which the code of practice is applicable;
(c) the views of the data subjects or groups representing data
subjects;
(d) the views of the relevant regulatory authority, if any, to
which the data user is subject to; and
(e) that the code of practice, upon having regard to all of
the matters in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) and any other
matters, offers an adequate level of protection for the
personal data of the data subjects concerned.
(3) The Commissioner may issue different codes of practice
for different classes of data users.
(4) The code of practice issued by the Commissioner under
subsection (1) shall be registered in the Register of Codes of
Practice.
(5) The code of practice under subsection (1) shall take
effect on the date of registration of the code of practice by the
Commissioner.
(6) The Commissioner shall make available to the public any
code of practice issued by him under subsection (1).
Applicable code of practice
25. (1) The Commissioner shall ensure that there is only one
code of practice registered for a class of data users at a given
time.
(2) All data users belonging to a class of data users shall comply
with the relevant registered code of practice that is applicable to
that class of data users at a given time.

Personal Data Protection

29

(3) Where a code of practice is registered by the Commissioner
under section 23 or 24, the Commissioner shall notify, in such
manner as he may determine, the relevant class of data users to
whom the code of practice is applicable—
(a) of the identity of the code of practice concerned and the
date on which the code of practice is to take effect;
and
(b) of the specific requirements under this Act for which the
code of practice is issued and registered.
(4) If there is any uncertainty or ambiguity as to which code
of practice is applicable to a particular data user or class of
data users, the data user or person concerned may apply to the
Commissioner for his opinion on which code of practice is the
applicable code of practice in relation to the circumstances of
such data user or person.
(5) The Commissioner shall provide his opinion within thirty
days from the date of receipt of an application made under
subsection (4).
(6) The Commissioner shall, when making his opinion under
subsection (5), take into account any relevant previous opinions,
if any.
(7) The Commissioner may withdraw an opinion made
under this section if the Commissioner is satisfied that the
nature of the activity engaged by the data user has changed
materially.
Revocation, etc., of code of practice
26. (1) The Commissioner may revoke, amend or revise, whether
in whole or in part, any code of practice registered under this
Act—
(a) on his own accord; or
(b) upon an application by the data user forum or such bodies
representing the data users.

30

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) The Commissioner shall, before revoking, amending
or revising a code of practice under subsection (1), consult
with—
(a) such data users or bodies representative of data users to
which the code of practice shall apply, whether in whole
or in part; and
(b) such other interested persons,
as the Commissioner thinks fit.
(3) Where any code of practice has been revoked, amended
or revised under subsection (1), the Commissioner—
(a) shall enter the particulars of such revocation, amendment
or revision in the Register of Codes of Practice; and
(b) shall notify the relevant data user forum, class of data
users, data users and the public of such revocation,
amendment or revision in such manner as may be
determined by him.
(4) The Commissioner shall make available to the public
any code of practice as amended or revised by him under this
section.
Submission of new code of practice by data user forum
27. (1) A data user forum may submit a new code of practice
to replace an existing code of practice.
(2) The new code of practice submitted in pursuance of
subsection (1) shall be subject to the provisions of this
Division.
Register of Codes of Practice
28. (1) The Commissioner shall maintain a Register of Codes
of Practice in accordance with section 128.
(2) The Register of Codes of Practice shall contain—
(a) particulars of codes of practice registered under
section 23 or 24 and any revocation, amendment or revision
to such codes of practice under section 26; and

Personal Data Protection

31

(b) any opinion made by the Commissioner under
section 25, including particulars of withdrawal of previous
opinions.
Non-compliance with code of practice
29. A data user who fails to comply with any provision of the
code of practice that is applicable to the data user commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to both.
Division 4
Rights of data subject

Right of access to personal data
30. (1) An individual is entitled to be informed by a data user
whether personal data of which that individual is the data subject
is being processed by or on behalf of the data user.
(2) A requestor may, upon payment of a prescribed fee, make
a data access request in writing to the data user—
(a) for information of the data subject’s personal data that is
being processed by or on behalf of the data user; and
(b) to have communicated to him a copy of the personal data
in an intelligible form.
(3) A data access request for any information under
subsection (2) shall be treated as a single request, and a data
access request for information under paragraph (2)(a) shall, in the
absence of any indication to the contrary, be treated as extending
also to such request under paragraph (2)(b).
(4) In the case of a data user having separate entries in respect
of personal data held for different purposes, a separate data access
request shall be made for each separate entry.
(5) Where a data user does not hold the personal data, but
controls the processing of the personal data in such a way as
to prohibit the data user who holds the personal data from

32

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

complying, whether in whole or part, with the data access request
under subsection (2) which relates to the personal data, the firstmentioned data user shall be deemed to hold the personal data
and the provisions of this Act shall be construed accordingly.
Compliance with data access request
31. (1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 32, a data user
shall comply with a data access request under section 30 not
later than twenty-one days from the date of receipt of the data
access request.
(2) A data user who is unable to comply with a data access
request within the period specified in subsection (1) shall before
the expiration of that period—
(a) by notice in writing inform the requestor that he is unable
to comply with the data access request within such period
and the reasons why he is unable to do so; and
(b) comply with the data access request to the extent that he
is able to do so.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the data user shall comply
in whole with the data access request not later than fourteen days
after the expiration of the period stipulated in subsection (1).
Circumstances where data user may refuse to comply with
data access request
32. (1) A data user may refuse to comply with a data access
request under section 30 if—
(a) the data user is not supplied with such information as he
may reasonably require—
(i) in order to satisfy himself as to the identity of the
requestor; or
(ii) where the requestor claims to be a relevant person,
in order to satisfy himself—
(A) as to the identity of the data subject in
relation to whom the requestor claims to
be the relevant person; and

Personal Data Protection

33

(B) that the requestor is the relevant person
in relation to the data subject;
(b) the data user is not supplied with such information as
he may reasonably require to locate the personal data
to which the data access request relates;
(c) the burden or expense of providing access is disproportionate
to the risks to the data subject’s privacy in relation to
the personal data in the case in question;
(d) the data user cannot comply with the data access request
without disclosing personal data relating to another
individual who can be identified from that information,
unless—
(i) that other individual has consented to the disclosure
of the information to the requestor; or
(ii) it is reasonable in all the circumstances to comply
with the data access request without the consent
of the other individual;
(e) subject to subsection (3), any other data user controls
the processing of the personal data to which the data
access request relates in such a way as to prohibit the
first-mentioned data user from complying, whether in
whole or in part, with the data access request;
(f) providing access would constitute a violation of an order
of a court;
(g) providing access would disclose confidential commercial
information; or
(h) such access to personal data is regulated by another
law.
(2) In determining for the purposes of subparagraph (1)(d)(ii)
whether it is reasonable in all the circumstances to comply with
the data access request without the consent of the other individual,
regard shall be had, in particular, to—
(a) any duty of confidentiality owed to the other
individual;
(b) any steps taken by the data user with a view to seeking
the consent of the other individual;

34

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(c) whether the other individual is capable of giving consent;
and
(d) any express refusal of consent by the other individual.
(3) Paragraph (1)(e) shall not operate so as to excuse the
data user from complying with the data access request under
subsection 30(2) to any extent that the data user can comply
with the data access request without contravening the prohibition
concerned.
Notification of refusal to comply with data access request
33. Where a data user who pursuant to section 32 refuses to
comply with a data access request under section 30, he shall, not
later than twenty-one days from the date of receipt of the data
access request, by notice in writing, inform the requestor—
(a) of the refusal and the reasons for the refusal; and
(b) where paragraph 32(1)(e) is applicable, of the name and
address of the other data user concerned.
Right to correct personal data
34. (1) Where—
(a) a copy of the personal data has been supplied by the
data user in compliance with the data access request
under section 30 and the requestor considers that the
personal data is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or
not up-to-date; or
(b) the data subject knows that his personal data being held
by the data user is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading
or not up-to-date,
the requestor or data subject, as the case may be, may make a
data correction request in writing to the data user that the data
user makes the necessary correction to the personal data.
(2) Where a data user does not hold the personal data, but
controls the processing of the personal data in such a way as
to prohibit the data user who holds the personal data from
complying, whether in whole or in part, with the data correction

Personal Data Protection

35

request under subsection (1) which relates to the personal data,
the first-mentioned data user shall be deemed to be the data user
to whom such a request may be made and the provisions of this
Act shall be construed accordingly.
Compliance with data correction request
35. (1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (5) and section 36,
where a data user is satisfied that the personal data to which a
data correction request relates is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading
or not up-to-date, he shall, not later than twenty-one days from
the date of receipt of the data correction request—
(a) make the necessary correction to the personal data;
(b) supply the requestor with a copy of the personal data as
corrected; and
(c) subject to subsection (4), where—
(i) the personal data has been disclosed to a third party
during the twelve months immediately preceding
the day on which the correction is made; and
(ii) the data user has no reason to believe that the third
party has ceased using the personal data for the
purpose, including any directly related purpose,
for which the personal data was disclosed to the
third party,
take all practicable steps to supply the third party with a
copy of the personal data as so corrected accompanied
by a notice in writing stating the reasons for the
correction.
(2) A data user who is unable to comply with a data correction
request within the period specified in subsection (1) shall before
the expiration of that period—
(a) by notice in writing inform the requestor that he is unable
to comply with the data correction request within such
period and the reasons why he is unable to do so;
and
(b) comply with the data correction request to the extent that
he is able to do so.

36

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the data user shall
comply in whole with the data correction request not later than
fourteen days after the expiration of the period stipulated in
subsection (1).
(4) A data user is not required to comply with paragraph (1)(c)
in any case where the disclosure of the personal data to a third party
consists of the third party’s own inspection of a register—
(a) in which the personal data is entered or otherwise recorded;
and
(b) which is available for inspection by the public.
(5) Where a data user is requested to correct personal data
under subsection 34(1) and the personal data is being processed
by another data user that is in a better position to respond to the
data correction request—
(a) the first-mentioned data user shall immediately transfer
the data correction request to such data user, and notify
the requestor of this fact; and
(b) sections 34, 35, 36 and 37 shall apply as if the references
therein to a data user were references to such other data
user.
Circumstances where data user may refuse to comply with
data correction request
36. (1) A data user may refuse to comply with a data correction
request under section 34 if—
(a) the data user is not supplied with such information as he
may reasonably require—
(i) in order to satisfy himself as to the identity of the
requestor; or
(ii) where the requestor claims to be a relevant person,
in order to satisfy himself—
(A) as to the identity of the data subject in
relation to whom the requestor claims to
be the relevant person; and

Personal Data Protection

37

(B) that the requestor is the relevant person
in relation to the data subject;
(b) the data user is not supplied with such information as
he may reasonably require to ascertain in what way
the personal data to which the data correction request
relates is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not
up-to-date;
(c) the data user is not satisfied that the personal data to
which the data correction request relates is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date;
(d) the data user is not satisfied that the correction which is
the subject of the data correction request is accurate,
complete, not misleading or up-to-date; or
(e) subject to subsection (2), any other data user controls
the processing of the personal data to which the data
correction request relates in such a way as to prohibit
the first-mentioned data user from complying, whether
in whole or in part, with the data correction request.
(2) Paragraph (1)(e) shall not operate so as to excuse the
data user from complying with subsection 35(1) in relation to
the data correction request to any extent that the data user can
comply with that subsection without contravening the prohibition
concerned.
Notification of refusal to comply with data correction
request
37. (1) Where a data user who pursuant to section 36 refuses
to comply with a data correction request under section 34, he
shall, not later than twenty-one days from the date of receipt
of the data correction request, by notice in writing, inform the
requestor—
(a) of the refusal and the reasons for the refusal; and
(b) where paragraph 36(1)(e) is applicable, of the name and
address of the other data user concerned.

38

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), where
personal data to which the data correction request relates is an
expression of opinion and the data user is not satisfied that the
expression of opinion is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or
not up-to-date, the data user shall—
(a) make a note, whether annexed to the personal data or
elsewhere—
(i) of the matters in respect of which the expression
of opinion is considered by the requestor to
be inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not
up-to-date; and
(ii) in such a way that the personal data cannot be used
by any person without the note being drawn to
the attention of and being available for inspection
by that person; and
(b) attach a copy of the note to the notice referred to in
subsection (1) which relates to the data correction
request.
(3) In this section, “expression of opinion” includes an assertion
of fact which is unverifiable or in all circumstances of the case
is not practicable to verify.
(4) A data user who contravenes subsection (2) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to both.
Withdrawal of consent to process personal data
38. (1) A data subject may by notice in writing withdraw his
consent to the processing of personal data in respect of which
he is the data subject.
(2) The data user shall, upon receiving the notice under
subsection (1), cease the processing of the personal data.
(3) The failure of the data subject to exercise the right conferred
by subsection (1) does not affect any other rights conferred on
him by this Part.

Personal Data Protection

39

(4) A data user who contravenes subsection (2) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to both.
Extent of disclosure of personal data
39. Notwithstanding section 8, personal data of a data subject
may be disclosed by a data user for any purpose other than the
purpose for which the personal data was to be disclosed at the
time of its collection or any other purpose directly related to that
purpose, only under the following circumstances:
(a) the data subject has given his consent to the
disclosure;
(b) the disclosure —
(i) is necessary for the purpose of preventing or detecting
a crime, or for the purpose of investigations;
or
(ii) was required or authorized by or under any law
or by the order of a court;
(c) the data user acted in the reasonable belief that he had in
law the right to disclose the personal data to the other
person;
(d) the data user acted in the reasonable belief that he would
have had the consent of the data subject if the data
subject had known of the disclosing of the personal data
and the circumstances of such disclosure; or
(e) the disclosure was justified as being in the public interest
in circumstances as determined by the Minister.
Processing of sensitive personal data
40. (1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 5, a data user shall
not process any sensitive personal data of a data subject except
in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) the data subject has given his explicit consent to the
processing of the personal data;

40

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(b) the processing is necessary—
(i) for the purposes of exercising or performing any
right or obligation which is conferred or imposed
by law on the data user in connection with
employment;
(ii) in order to protect the vital interests of the data
subject or another person, in a case where—
(A) consent cannot be given by or on behalf
of the data subject; or
(B) the data user cannot reasonably be expected to
obtain the consent of the data subject;
(iii) in order to protect the vital interests of another
person, in a case where consent by or on behalf
of the data subject has been unreasonably
withheld;
(iv) for medical purposes and is undertaken by—
(A) a healthcare professional; or
(B) a person who in the circumstances owes a
duty of confidentiality which is equivalent
to that which would arise if that person
were a healthcare professional;
(v) for the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal
proceedings;
(vi) for the purpose of obtaining legal advice;
(vii) for the purposes of establishing, exercising or
defending legal rights;
(viii) for the administration of justice;
(ix) for the exercise of any functions conferred on any
person by or under any written law; or
(x) for any other purposes as the Minister thinks fit;
or
(c) the information contained in the personal data has been
made public as a result of steps deliberately taken by
the data subject.

Personal Data Protection

41

(2) The Minister may by order published in the Gazette
exclude the application of subparagraph (1)(b)(i), (viii) or (ix)
in such cases as may be specified in the order, or provide that,
in such cases as may be specified in the order, the condition
in subparagraph (1)(b)(i), (viii) or (ix) is not to be regarded as
satisfied unless such further conditions as may be specified in
the order are also satisfied.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
two hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to both.
(4) For the purposes of this section—
“medical purposes” includes the purposes of preventive
medicine, medical diagnosis, medical research, rehabilitation
and the provision of care and treatment and the management of
healthcare services;
“healthcare services” has the meaning assigned to it in the
Private Healthcare Facilities and Services Act 1998 [Act 586];
“healthcare professional” means a medical practitioner, dental
practitioner, pharmacist, clinical psychologist, nurse, midwife,
medical assistant, physiotherapist, occupational therapist and other
allied healthcare professionals and any other person involved in
the giving of medical, health, dental, pharmaceutical and any
other healthcare services under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Health.
Repeated collection of personal data in same circumstances
41. (1) Where a data user—
(a) has complied with the provisions of the Notice and Choice
Principle under section 7 in respect of the collection of
personal data from the data subject, referred to as the
“first collection”; and
(b) on any subsequent occasion again collects personal data
from that data subject, referred to as the “subsequent
collection”,

42

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

the data user is not required to comply with the provisions of
the Notice and Choice Principle in respect of the subsequent
collection if—
(A) to comply with those provisions in respect of that subsequent
collection would be to repeat, in the same circumstances,
what was done to comply with that principle in respect
of the first collection; and
(B) not more than twelve months have elapsed between the
first collection and the subsequent collection.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is declared that subsection (1)
shall not operate to prevent a subsequent collection from becoming
a first collection if the data user concerned has complied with the
provisions of the Notice and Choice Principle in respect of the
subsequent collection.
Right to prevent processing likely to cause damage or
distress
42. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a data subject may, at any
time by notice in writing to a data user, referred to as the “data
subject notice”, require the data user at the end of such period
as is reasonable in the circumstances, to—
(a) cease the processing of or processing for a specified
purpose or in a specified manner; or
(b) not begin the processing of or processing for a specified
purpose or in a specified manner,
any personal data in respect of which he is the data subject if,
based on reasons to be stated by him—
(A) the processing of that personal data or the processing
of personal data for that purpose or in that manner
is causing or is likely to cause substantial damage or
substantial distress to him or to another person; and
(B) the damage or distress is or would be unwarranted.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply where—
(a) the data subject has given his consent;

Personal Data Protection

43

(b) the processing of personal data is necessary—
(i) for the performance of a contract to which the
data subject is a party;
(ii) for the taking of steps at the request of the data
subject with a view to entering a contract;
(iii) for compliance with any legal obligation to which
the data user is the subject, other than an obligation
imposed by contract; or
(iv) in order to protect the vital interests of the data
subject; or
(c) in such other cases as may be prescribed by the Minister
by order published in the Gazette.
(3) The data user shall, within twenty-one days from the date
of receipt of the data subject notice under subsection (1), give
the data subject a written notice—
(a) stating that he has complied or intends to comply with
the data subject notice; or
(b) stating his reasons for regarding the data subject notice as
unjustified, or to any extent unjustified, and the extent,
if any, to which he has complied or intends to comply
with it.
(4) Where the data subject is dissatisfied with the failure of
the data user to comply with the data subject notice, whether in
whole or in part, under paragraph (3)(b), the data subject may
submit an application to the Commissioner to require the data
user to comply with the data subject notice.
(5) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the application
of the data subject under subsection (4) is justified or justified to
any extent, the Commissioner may require the data user to take
such steps for complying with the data subject notice.
(6) A data user who fails to comply with the requirement of
the Commissioner under subsection (5) commits an offence and
shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to both.

44

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Right to prevent processing for purposes of direct
marketing
43. (1) A data subject may, at any time by notice in writing
to a data user, require the data user at the end of such period
as is reasonable in the circumstances to cease or not to
begin processing his personal data for purposes of direct
marketing.
(2) Where the data subject is dissatisfied with the failure of the
data user to comply with the notice, whether in whole or in part,
under subsection (1), the data subject may submit an application
to the Commissioner to require the data user to comply with the
notice.
(3) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the application
of the data subject under subsection (2) is justified or justified to
any extent, the Commissioner may require the data user to take
such steps for complying with the notice.
(4) A data user who fails to comply with the requirement of
the Commissioner under subsection (3) commits an offence and
shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to both.
(5) For the purposes of this section, “direct marketing”
means the communication by whatever means of any advertising
or marketing material which is directed to particular
individuals.
Record to be kept by data user
44. (1) A data user shall keep and maintain a record of any
application, notice, request or any other information relating to
personal data that has been or is being processed by him.
(2) The Commissioner may determine the manner and form
in which the record is to be maintained.

Personal Data Protection

45

PART III
EXEMPTION

Exemption
45. (1) There shall be exempted from the provisions of this Act
personal data processed by an individual only for the purposes of
that individual’s personal, family or household affairs, including
recreational purposes.
(2) Subject to section 46, personal data—
(a) processed for—
(i) the prevention or detection of crime or for the
purpose of investigations;
(ii) the apprehension or prosecution of offenders; or
(iii) the assessment or collection of any tax or duty or
any other imposition of a similar nature,
shall be exempted from the General Principle, Notice
and Choice Principle, Disclosure Principle and Access
Principle and other related provisions of this Act;
(b) processed in relation to information of the physical or
mental health of a data subject shall be exempted from
the Access Principle and other related provisions of this
Act of which the application of the provisions to the
data subject would be likely to cause serious harm to
the physical or mental health of the data subject or any
other individual;
(c) processed for preparing statistics or carrying out research
shall be exempted from the General Principle, Notice
and Choice Principle, Disclosure Principle and Access
Principle and other related provisions of this Act, provided
that such personal data is not processed for any other
purpose and that the resulting statistics or the results
of the research are not made available in a form which
identifies the data subject;
(d) that is necessary for the purpose of or in connection with
any order or judgement of a court shall be exempted
from the General Principle, Notice and Choice Principle,
Disclosure Principle and Access Principle and other
related provisions of this Act;

46

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(e) processed for the purpose of discharging regulatory
functions shall be exempted from the General Principle,
Notice and Choice Principle, Disclosure Principle and
Access Principle and other related provisions of this Act
if the application of those provisions to the personal
data would be likely to prejudice the proper discharge
of those functions; or
(f) processed only for journalistic, literary or artistic purposes
shall be exempted from the General Principle, Notice and
Choice Principle, Disclosure Principle, Retention Principle,
Data Integrity Principle and Access Principle and other
related provisions of this Act, provided that—
(i) the processing is undertaken with a view to the
publication by any person of the journalistic,
literary or artistic material;
(ii) the data user reasonably believes that, taking into
account the special importance of public interest
in freedom of expression, the publication would
be in the public interest; and
(iii) the data user reasonably believes that in all the
circumstances, compliance with the provision
in respect of which the exemption is claimed
is incompatible with the journalistic, literary or
artistic purposes.
Power to make further exemptions
46. (1) The Minister may, upon the recommendation of the
Commissioner, by order published in the Gazette exempt—
(a) the application of any of the Personal Data Protection
Principles under this Act to any data user or class of
data users; or
(b) any data user or class of data users from all or any of
the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Minister may impose any terms or conditions as he
thinks fit in respect of any exemption made under subsection (1).

Personal Data Protection

47

(3) The Minister may at any time, on the recommendation of
the Commissioner, by order published in the Gazette, revoke any
order made under subsection (1).
PART IV
APPOINTMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF COMMISSIONER

Appointment of Commissioner
47. (1) The Minister shall appoint any person as the “Personal
Data Protection Commissioner” for the purposes of carrying out
the functions and powers assigned to the Commissioner under
this Act on such terms and conditions as he thinks desirable.
(2) The appointment of the Commissioner shall be published
in the Gazette.
(3) The Commissioner appointed under subsection (1) shall
be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common
seal.
(4) The Commissioner may sue and be sued in his corporate
name.
Functions of Commissioner
48. The Commissioner shall have the following functions:
(a) to advise the Minister on the national policy for personal
data protection and all other related matters;
(b) to implement and enforce the personal data protection
laws, including the formulation of operational policies
and procedures;
(c) to promote and encourage associations or bodies representing
data users to prepare codes of practice and to disseminate
to their members the codes of practice for the purposes
of this Act;
(d) to cooperate with bodies corporate or government agencies
for the purpose of performing his functions;

48

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(e) to determine in pursuance of section 129 whether any
place outside Malaysia has in place a system for the
protection of personal data that is substantially similar
to that as provided for under this Act or that serves the
same purposes as this Act;
(f) to undertake or cause to be undertaken research into and
monitor developments in the processing of personal
data, including technology, in order to take account any
effects such developments may have on the privacy of
individuals in relation to their personal data;
(g) to monitor and supervise compliance with the provisions of
this Act, including the issuance of circulars, enforcement
notices or any other instruments to any person;
(h) to promote awareness and dissemination of information
to the public about the operation of this Act;
(i) to liaise and cooperate with persons performing similar
personal data protection functions in any place outside
Malaysia in respect of matters of mutual interest, including
matters concerning the privacy of individuals in relation
to their personal data;
(j) to represent Malaysia through participation in events that
relate to personal data protection as authorized by the
Minister, whether within or outside Malaysia; and
(k) to carry out such activities and do such things as are
necessary, advantageous and proper for the administration
of this Act, or such other purposes consistent with this
Act as may be directed by the Minister.
Powers of Commissioner
49. (1) The Commissioner shall have all such powers to do
all things necessary or expedient for or in connection with the
performance of his functions under this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
powers of the Commissioner shall include the power—
(a) to collect such fees as may be prescribed by the
Minister;

Personal Data Protection

49

(b) to appoint such agents, experts, consultants or any other
persons as he thinks fit to assist him in the performance
of his functions;
(c) to formulate human resource development and cooperation
programmes for the proper and effective performance of
his functions;
(d) to enter into contracts;
(e) to acquire, purchase, take, hold and enjoy any movable
or immovable property of every description for the
performance of his functions, and to convey, assign,
surrender, yield up, charge, mortgage, demise, transfer
or otherwise dispose of, or deal with such property or
any interest therein vested in him;
(f) to perform such other functions as the Minister may
assign from time to time; and
(g) to do all such things as may be incidental to or consequential
upon the performance of his functions.
Appointment of Deputy Commissioners and Assistant
Commissioners
50. (1) The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Minister,
from time to time, appoint such number of public officers as
Deputy Commissioners and such number of persons as Assistant
Commissioners as are necessary to assist the Commissioner in
the performance of his functions and the exercise of his powers
under this Act.
(2) The Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners
appointed under subsection (1) shall hold office for such periods,
receive such remuneration, allowances or benefits, and shall be
subject to such terms and conditions of service as the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Minister, may determine.
(3) The Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners
appointed under subsection (1) shall be subject to the supervision,
direction and control of the Commissioner.

50

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Appointment of other officers and servants
51. The Commissioner may employ on such terms and conditions
as he thinks desirable such officers and servants as may be
necessary to assist him in the performance of his functions and
the exercise of his powers under this Act.
Loans and advances to officers and servants
52. The Commissioner may grant loans and advances to the
officers and servants under section 51 for such purposes and on
such terms and conditions as the Commissioner may determine.
Tenure of office
53. Subject to such conditions as may be specified in his instrument
of appointment, the Commissioner shall, unless he sooner resigns
or vacates his office or his appointment is sooner revoked, hold
office for a term not exceeding three years and may be eligible
for reappointment.
Revocation of appointment and resignation
54. (1) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment of the
Commissioner and shall state the reason for such revocation.
(2) The Commissioner may at any time resign his office by
giving a written notice addressed to the Minister fourteen days
prior to the intended date of resignation.
Te m p o r a r y e x e r c i s e o f f u n c t i o n s a n d p o w e r s o f
Commissioner
55. (1) The Minister may temporarily appoint a Deputy
Commissioner to perform the functions and powers of the
Commissioner for the period when—
(a) the Commissioner is by reason of illness, leave of absence
or any other cause unable to perform his functions for
any substantial period; or
(b) the office of the Commissioner is vacant.

Personal Data Protection

51

(2) A person appointed under subsection (1) shall, during the
period in which he is performing the functions and exercising
the powers of the Commissioner under this section, be deemed
to be the Commissioner.
Vacation of office
56. The office of the Commissioner shall be vacated—
(a) if he dies;
(b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been
convicted of, a charge in respect of—
(i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral
turpitude;
(ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption;
or
(iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in
itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine)
for more than two years;
(c) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties as
a Commissioner or otherwise, has been such as to bring
discredit on the office of the Commissioner;
(d) if he becomes bankrupt;
(e) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of
discharging his duties;
(f) if his appointment is revoked by the Minister; or
(g) if his resignation is accepted by the Minister.
Remuneration and allowances
57. The Commissioner shall be paid such remuneration and
allowances as the Minister may determine after consultation with
the Minister of Finance.

52

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Delegation of Commissioner’s functions and powers
58. (1) The Commissioner may, subject to such conditions,
limitations or restrictions as he may think fit to impose, delegate
any of his functions or powers imposed or conferred upon him
under this Act, except his power of delegation, to the Deputy
Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners, and any function
or power so delegated may be performed and exercised by the
officer in the name and on behalf of the Commissioner.
(2) The delegation under subsection (1) shall not preclude the
Commissioner himself from performing or exercising at any time
the delegated functions or powers.
Direction by Minister
59. (1) The Commissioner shall be responsible to the
Minister.
(2) The Minister may give to the Commissioner directions of
a general character consistent with the provisions of this Act
relating to the performance of the functions and powers of the
Commissioner and the Commissioner shall give effect to such
directions.
Returns, reports, accounts and information
60. (1) The Commissioner shall furnish to the Minister and
any such public authority as may be directed by the Minister,
the returns, reports, accounts and information with respect to his
activities as the Minister may require or direct.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each
financial year, cause to be made and transmitted to the Minister
and if so directed by the Minister to any other public authority,
a report dealing with the activities of the Commissioner during
the preceding financial year, and the report shall be in such form
and shall contain such information relating to the proceedings
and policies of the Commissioner as the Minister may specify.

Personal Data Protection

53

PART V
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION FUND

Establishment of Fund
61. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a fund to be known as the
“Personal Data Protection Fund” is established.
(2) The Fund shall be controlled, maintained and operated by
the Commissioner.
(3) The Fund shall consist of—
(a) such sums as may be provided by Parliament for the
purposes of this Act from time to time;
(b) fees, costs and any other charges imposed by or payable
to the Commissioner under this Act;
(c) all monies derived from the sale, disposal, lease, hire
or any other dealings with the movable or immovable
property vested in or acquired by the Commissioner;
(d) all monies as may be paid to the Commissioner from time
to time for loans given by the Commissioner; and
(e) all other monies or property which may in any manner
become payable to or vested in the Commissioner in
respect of any matter incidental to his functions and
powers.

Expenditure to be charged on Fund
62. The Fund may be expended for the following purposes:
(a) paying any expenditure lawfully incurred by the
Commissioner;
(b) paying any expenses incurred for organizing campaigns,
research, studies and publication of materials for the
protection of personal data;

54

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(c) paying the remuneration, allowances, benefits and other
expenses of the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners,
Assistant Commissioners, members of the Advisory
Committee, members, officers and servants of the Appeal
Tribunal and officers and servants of the Commissioner,
including the granting of loans and advances, superannuation
allowances, retirement benefits and gratuities;
(d) paying any other expenses, expenditure, fees and costs,
including fees for the engagement of consultants, and
legal fees and costs, properly incurred or accepted, or
deemed fit by the Commissioner in the performance of
his functions and the exercise of his powers;
(e) purchasing or hiring equipment and materials, acquiring
land and any assets, and carrying out any other works
and undertakings in the performance of his functions
and the exercise of his powers; and
(f) generally, paying any expenses for carrying into effect
the provisions of this Act.
Conservation of Fund
63. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to conserve the Fund
by so performing his functions and exercising his powers under
this Act as to secure that the total revenues of the Commissioner
are sufficient to meet all sums properly chargeable to its revenue
account, including depreciation and interest on capital, taking one
year with another.
Reserve fund
64. The Commissioner shall establish and maintain a reserve
fund within the Fund.
Financial year
65. The financial year of the Commissioner shall begin on
1 January and end on 31 December of each year.

Personal Data Protection

55

Limitation on contracts
66. The Commissioner shall not, without the approval of the
Minister and the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, enter
into any contract under which the Commissioner is to pay or
receive an amount exceeding two million ringgit.
Bank accounts
67. The Commissioner shall open and maintain an account or
accounts with such financial institution or financial institutions in
Malaysia as the Commissioner, after consulting with the Minister,
thinks fit; and every such account shall be operated upon as far
as practicable by cheques signed by such persons as may be
authorized by the Minister.
Accounts and audit
68. The Commissioner shall cause proper accounts to be kept
and maintained in respect of the Fund and in compliance with
the provisions of the Statutory Bodies (Accounts and Annual
Reports) Act 1980 [Act 240].
Expenditure and preparation of estimates
69. (1) The expenditure of the Commissioner up to such amount
as may be authorized by the Minister for any one year shall be
defrayed out of the Fund.
(2) Before 1 June of each year, the Commissioner shall submit
to the Minister an estimate of the expenditure for the following
year in such form and containing such particulars as the Minister
may direct.
(3) The Minister shall, before 1 January of the following year,
notify the Commissioner of the amount authorized for expenditure
generally or of the amounts authorized for each description of
expenditure based on the estimate prepared under subsection (2).

56

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(4) The Commissioner may at any time submit to the Minister
a supplementary estimate of its expenditure for any one year and
the Minister may allow the whole or any part of the additional
expenditure to be included in the supplementary estimate.
PART VI
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Establishment of Advisory Committee
70. There is established a Personal Data Protection Advisory
Committee.
Functions of Advisory Committee
71. (1) The functions of the Advisory Committee shall be—
(a) to advise the Commissioner on all matters relating to
personal data protection, and the due administration and
enforcement of this Act; and
(b) to advise the Commissioner on any matter referred by
him to the Advisory Committee.
(2) The Commissioner shall not be bound to act upon the
advice of the Advisory Committee.
Members of Advisory Committee
72. The Advisory Committee shall consist of the following
members to be appointed by the Minister:
(a) a Chairman;
(b) three members from the public sector; and
(c) at least seven but not more than eleven other members.

Personal Data Protection

57

Tenure of office
73. A member appointed under section 72 shall, unless he
sooner resigns or vacates his office or his appointment is sooner
revoked, hold office for such period not exceeding three years as
the Minister may determine at the time of his appointment, and
shall be eligible for reappointment; but no member shall hold
office for more than two consecutive terms.
Revocation of appointment and resignation
74. (1) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment
of any member of the Advisory Committee and shall state the
reason for such revocation.
(2) A member of the Advisory Committee appointed under
section 72 may at any time resign from his office by giving a
written notice addressed to the Minister fourteen days prior to
the intended date of resignation.
Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman
75. (1) The Minister may temporarily appoint any member of
the Advisory Committee to act as the Chairman for the period
when—
(a) the Chairman is by reason of illness, leave of absence
or any other cause unable to perform his functions for
any substantial period; or
(b) the office of the Chairman is vacant.
(2) A member appointed under subsection (1) shall, during the
period in which he is performing the functions of the Chairman
under this section, be deemed to be the Chairman.
Vacation of office
76. The office of a member of the Advisory Committee shall be
vacated—
(a) if he dies;

58

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been
convicted of, a charge in respect of—
(i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral
turpitude;
(ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption;
or
(iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in
itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine)
for more than two years;
(c) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties
as a member of the Advisory Committee or otherwise,
has been such as to bring discredit on the Advisory
Committee;
(d) if he becomes bankrupt;
(e) if he is of unsound mind or is otherwise incapable of
discharging his duties;
(f) in the case of the Chairman, if he absents himself from
a meeting of the Advisory Committee without leave in
writing of the Minister;
(g) in the case of a member of the Advisory Committee
other than the Chairman, if he absents himself from
three consecutive meetings of the Advisory Committee
without leave in writing of the Chairman;
(h) if his appointment is revoked by the Minister; or
(i) if his resignation is accepted by the Minister.
Allowances
77. The Chairman and all other members of the Advisory
Committee may be paid such allowances as the Minister may
determine after consultation with the Minister of Finance.

Personal Data Protection

59

Time and place of meetings
78. (1) The Advisory Committee is to hold as many meetings
as are necessary for the efficient performance of its functions
and such meetings are to be held at such places and times as
the Chairman may decide, provided that the Chairman shall not
allow more than two months to lapse between meetings.
(2) The Chairman shall call for a meeting if requested to do
so in writing by the Minister or by at least four members of the
Advisory Committee.
Advisory Committee may invite others to attend meetings
79. (1) The Advisory Committee may invite any person to attend
any meeting or deliberation of the Advisory Committee for the
purpose of assisting it on any matter under discussion.
(2) A person invited under subsection (1) shall be paid such
allowances as may be determined by the Commissioner.
Minutes
80. (1) The Advisory Committee shall cause minutes of all its
meetings to be maintained and kept in a proper form.
(2) Minutes made of meetings of the Advisory Committee shall,
if duly signed, be admissible in evidence in all legal proceedings
without further proof.
(3) Every meeting of the Advisory Committee in respect of
the proceedings of which minutes have been so made shall be
deemed to have been duly convened and held and all members
thereat to have been duly qualified to act.
Procedure
81. The Advisory Committee may regulate its own procedure.

60

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Members to devote time to business of Advisory Committee
82. The members of the Advisory Committee shall devote such
time to the business of the Advisory Committee as is necessary
to discharge their duties effectively.

PART VII
APPEAL TRIBUNAL

Establishment of Appeal Tribunal
83. There is established an Appeal Tribunal for the purpose of
reviewing any of the matters on appeal as set out in section 93.
Powers of Appeal Tribunal
84. (1) The Appeal Tribunal shall have the power—
(a) to summon parties to the proceedings or any other person
to attend before it to give evidence in respect of an
appeal;
(b) to procure and receive evidence on oath or affirmation,
whether written or oral, and examine all such persons as
witnesses as the Appeal Tribunal considers necessary;
(c) where a person is so summoned, to require the production
of any information, document or other thing in his
possession or under his control which the Appeal Tribunal
considers necessary for the purposes of the appeal;
(d) to administer any oath, affirmation or statutory declaration,
as the case may require;
(e) where a person is so summoned, to allow the payment
for any reasonable expenses incurred in connection with
his attendance;
(f) to admit evidence or reject evidence adduced, whether oral
or documentary, and whether admissible or inadmissible
under the provisions of any written law relating to the
admissibility of evidence;

Personal Data Protection

61

(g) to adjourn the hearing of an appeal from time to time,
including the power to adjourn to consider its decision;
and
(h) generally to direct and do all such matters as may be
necessary or expedient for the expeditious decision of
the appeal.
(2) The Appeal Tribunal shall have the powers of a subordinate
court with regard to the enforcement of attendance of witnesses,
hearing evidence on oath or affirmation and punishment for
contempt.
Members of Appeal Tribunal
85. (1) The Appeal Tribunal shall consist of the following
members who shall be appointed by the Minister:
(a) a Chairman; and
(b) at least two other members, or such greater number of
members as the Minister thinks necessary.
(2) The Minister shall appoint a person who is a member of
the Judicial and Legal Service of the Federation for at least ten
years to be the Chairman of the Appeal Tribunal.
(3) The appointment of the members of the Appeal Tribunal
shall be published by notification in the Gazette.
Secretary to Appeal Tribunal and other officers, etc.
86. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Secretary to the Appeal
Tribunal on such terms and conditions as he thinks desirable.
(2) The Secretary to the Appeal Tribunal shall be responsible
for the administration and management of the functions of the
Appeal Tribunal.
(3) The Minister may appoint such number of officers and servants
as the Minister thinks fit to assist the Secretary to the Appeal
Tribunal in carrying out his functions under subsection (2).

62

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(4) The Secretary to the Appeal Tribunal shall have the general
control of the officers and servants of the Appeal Tribunal.
(5) For the purposes of this Act, the Secretary to the Appeal
Tribunal and the officers appointed under subsection (3) shall be
deemed to be officers of the Appeal Tribunal.
Tenure of office
87. A member of the Appeal Tribunal appointed under
subsection 85(1) shall, unless he sooner resigns or vacates his
office or his appointment is sooner revoked—
(a) hold office for a term not exceeding three years; and
(b) shall be eligible for reappointment upon the expiry of
his term of office, but shall not be appointed for more
than two consecutive terms.
Resignation and revocation of appointment
88. (1) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment
of a member of the Appeal Tribunal and shall state the reason
for such revocation.
(2) A member of the Appeal Tribunal appointed under
subsection 85(1) may at any time resign from his office by
giving a written notice addressed to the Minister fourteen days
prior to the intended date of resignation.
Temporary exercise of functions of Chairman
89. (1) The Minister may temporarily appoint any member of the
Appeal Tribunal to act as the Chairman for the period when—
(a) the Chairman is by reason of illness, leave of absence
or any other cause unable to perform his functions for
any substantial period; or
(b) the office of the Chairman is vacant.

Personal Data Protection

63

(2) A member appointed under subsection (1) shall, during the
period in which he is performing the functions of the Chairman
under this section, be deemed to be the Chairman.
Vacation of office
90. The office of a member of the Appeal Tribunal shall be
vacated—
(a) if he dies;
(b) if there has been proved against him, or he has been
convicted of, a charge in respect of—
(i) an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral
turpitude;
(ii) an offence under any law relating to corruption;
or
(iii) any other offence punishable with imprisonment (in
itself only or in addition to or in lieu of a fine)
for more than two years;
(c) if his conduct, whether in connection with his duties as a
member of the Appeal Tribunal or otherwise, has been
such as to bring discredit on the Appeal Tribunal;
(d) if he becomes bankrupt;
(e) if he is of unsound mind or otherwise incapable of
discharging his duties;
(f) if he fails to comply with his obligations under
section 92;
(g) if his performance as a member of the Appeal Tribunal has
been unsatisfactory for a significant period of time;
(h) if his appointment is revoked by the Minister; or
(i) if his resignation is accepted by the Minister.
Allowances
91. (1) The Chairman of the Appeal Tribunal appointed under
paragraph 85(1)(a) shall be paid such fixed allowances and other
allowances as the Minister may determine.

64

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(2) The other members of the Appeal Tribunal appointed under
paragraph 85(1)(b) shall be paid—
(a) daily sitting allowances during the sitting of the Appeal
Tribunal; and
(b) lodging, travelling and subsistence allowances,
as the Minister may determine.
Disclosure of interest
92. (1) A member of the Appeal Tribunal shall disclose, as soon
as practicable, to the Chairman any interest, whether substantial or
not, which might conflict with the member’s duties as a member
of the Appeal Tribunal in a particular matter.
(2) If the Chairman is of the opinion that the member’s interest
is in conflict with his duties as a member of the Appeal Tribunal,
the Chairman shall inform all the parties to the matter of the
conflict.
(3) If none of the parties to the matter objects to the conflict,
the member may continue to execute his duties as a member of
the Appeal Tribunal in relation to that matter.
(4) If a party to the matter objects to the conflict, the member
of the Appeal Tribunal shall not continue to execute his duties
as a member of the Appeal Tribunal in relation to that matter.
(5) The failure by the member to disclose his interest under
subsection (1) shall—
(a) invalidate the decision of the Appeal Tribunal, unless all
parties agree to be bound by the decision; and
(b) subject the member to the revocation of his appointment
under section 88.
Appeal to Appeal Tribunal
93. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the
Commissioner under this Act relating to matters, including—
(a) the registration of a data user under Division 2 of
Part II;

Personal Data Protection

65

(b) the refusal of the Commissioner to register a code of
practice under subsection 23(5);
(c) the failure of the data user to comply with a data access
request or data correction request under Division 4 of
Part II;
(d) the issuance of an enforcement notice under section 108;
(e) the refusal of the Commissioner to vary or revoke an
enforcement notice under section 109; and
(f) the refusal of the Commissioner to carry out or
continue an investigation initiated by a complaint under
Part VIII,
may appeal to the Appeal Tribunal by filing a notice of appeal
with the Appeal Tribunal.
(2) The notice of appeal shall be made in writing to the Appeal
Tribunal within thirty days from the date of the decision of the
Commissioner, or in the case of an enforcement notice, within
thirty days after the enforcement notice is served upon the relevant
data user, and the appellant shall serve a copy of the notice of
appeal upon the Commissioner.
(3) The notice of appeal shall state briefly the substance of the
decision of the Commissioner against which an appeal is filed
with the Appeal Tribunal, contain an address at which any notice
or document connected with the appeal may be served upon the
appellant or his advocate, and shall be signed by the appellant
or his advocate.
Record of decision of Commissioner
94. (1) The aggrieved person referred to in subsection 93(1) may,
on his own initiative, request in writing from the Commissioner
a statement of the grounds for his decision.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Commissioner shall, upon
receiving the written request under subsection (1), provide to the
aggrieved person, upon the payment of a prescribed fee, a copy
of a statement of the grounds for his decision.

66

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(3) Where a notice of appeal has been filed with the Appeal
Tribunal under subsection 93(1), the Commissioner shall, if he
has not already written the grounds for his decision in respect
of the matter stated in the notice under subsection 93(1), record
in writing the grounds for his decision, and the written grounds
shall form part of the record of proceedings before the Appeal
Tribunal.
Stay of decision pending appeal
95. (1) A decision of the Commissioner shall be valid, binding and
enforceable pending the decision of an appeal by the Appeal Tribunal,
except where an appeal against an enforcement notice has been
made to the Appeal Tribunal in accordance with subsection 93(2),
or a stay of the decision of the Commissioner has been applied
for under subsection (2) and granted by the Appeal Tribunal.
(2) An aggrieved person may apply in writing to the Appeal
Tribunal for a stay of the decision of the Commissioner on or after
the notice of appeal has been filed with the Appeal Tribunal.
Composition of Appeal Tribunal
96. (1) Every proceeding of the Appeal Tribunal shall be heard
and disposed of by three members or such greater uneven number
of members of the Appeal Tribunal as the Chairman may in any
particular case determine.
(2) In the absence of the Chairman, the senior member of the
Appeal Tribunal shall preside.
Sitting of Appeal Tribunal
97. (1) The Appeal Tribunal shall sit on such dates and at such
places as the Chairman may appoint.
(2) The Chairman may cancel or postpone any sitting of the
Appeal Tribunal or change the place of the sitting which has
been appointed under subsection (1).

Personal Data Protection

67

(3) The Secretary to the Appeal Tribunal shall by written notice
inform the parties to the appeal of any change to the date or
place of any sitting of the Appeal Tribunal.
Procedure of Appeal Tribunal
98. The Appeal Tribunal may regulate its own procedure.
Decision of Appeal Tribunal
99. (1) The decision of the Appeal Tribunal on any matter shall
be decided on a majority of members of the Appeal Tribunal.
(2) A decision of the Appeal Tribunal shall be final and binding
on the parties to the appeal.
Enforcement of decision of Appeal Tribunal
100. A decision given by the Appeal Tribunal may, by leave of
the Sessions Court, be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
or order to the same effect, and where leave is so given, judgment
may be entered in terms of the decision.
Part VIII
INSPECTION, COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION

Inspection of personal data system
101. (1) The Commissioner may carry out an inspection of—
(a) any personal data system used by data users for the purpose
of ascertaining information to assist the Commissioner
in making recommendations to the relevant data user
relating to the promotion of compliance with the provisions
of this Act, in particular the Personal Data Protection
Principles, by the relevant data user; or
(b) any personal data system used by data users belonging
to a class of data users for the purpose of ascertaining
information to assist the Commissioner in making

68

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

recommendations to the class of data users to which the
relevant data user belongs relating to the promotion of
compliance with the provisions of this Act, in particular
the Personal Data Protection Principles, by the class of
data users to which the relevant data user belongs.
(2) For the purposes of this section—
“data user” includes a data processor;
“personal data system” means any system, whether automated or
otherwise, which is used, whether in whole or in part, by a data
user for the processing of personal data, and includes the record
maintained under section 44 and any document and equipment
forming part of the system.
Relevant data user, etc., to be informed of result of
inspection
102. Where the Commissioner has completed an inspection of a
personal data system, he shall in such manner and at such time
as he thinks fit inform the relevant data user or class of data
users to which the relevant data user belongs of—
(a) the results of the inspection;
(b) any recommendations arising from the inspection that
the Commissioner thinks fit to make relating to the
promotion of compliance with the provisions of this Act,
in particular the Personal Data Protection Principles, by
the relevant data user or the class of data users to which
the relevant data user belongs; and
(c) such other comments arising from the inspection as he
thinks fit.
Reports by Commissioner
103. (1) The Commissioner may, after completing the inspection
of any personal data system used by data users belonging to a
class of data users, publish a report—
(a) setting out any recommendations arising from the inspection
that the Commissioner thinks fit to make relating to the

Personal Data Protection

69

promotion of compliance with the provisions of this Act,
in particular the Personal Data Protection Principles, by
the class of data users to which the relevant data users
belong; and
(b) in such manner as he thinks fit.
(2) A report published under subsection (1) shall be so
framed as to prevent the identity of any individual from being
ascertained.
Complaint
104. Any individual or relevant person may make a complaint
in writing to the Commissioner about an act, practice or
request—
(a) specified in the complaint;
(b) that has been done or engaged in, or is being done or engaged
in, by the data user specified in the complaint;
(c) that relates to personal data of which the individual is
the data subject; and
(d) that may be a contravention of the provisions of this Act,
including any codes of practice.
Investigation by Commissioner
105. (1) Where the Commissioner receives a complaint under
section 104, the Commissioner shall, subject to section 106,
carry out an investigation in relation to the relevant data user
to ascertain whether the act, practice or request specified in the
complaint contravenes the provisions of this Act.
(2) Where the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe
that an act, practice or request has been done or engaged in,
or is being done or engaged in, by the relevant data user that
relates to personal data and such act, practice or request may be
a contravention of the provisions of this Act, the Commissioner
may carry out an investigation in relation to the relevant data
user to ascertain whether the act, practice or request contravenes
the provisions of this Act.

70

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(3) The provisions of Part IX shall apply in respect of
investigations carried out by the Commissioner under this Part.
Restriction on investigation initiated by complaint
106. (1) The Commissioner may refuse to carry out or continue
an investigation initiated by a complaint if he is of the opinion
that, having regard to all the circumstances of the case—
(a) the complaint, or a complaint of a substantially similar
nature, has previously initiated an investigation as a
result of which the Commissioner was of the opinion
that there has been no contravention of the provisions
of this Act;
(b) the act, practice or request specified in the complaint is
trivial;
(c) the complaint is frivolous, vexatious or is not made in
good faith; or
(d) any investigation or further investigation is for any other
reason unnecessary.
(2) Notwithstanding the generality of the powers conferred on the
Commissioner by this Act, the Commissioner may refuse to carry
out or continue an investigation initiated by a complaint—
(a) if—
(i) the complainant; or
(ii) in the case where the complainant is a relevant
person in relation to a data subject, the data subject
or relevant person, as the case may be,
has had actual knowledge of the act, practice or request
specified in the complaint for more than two years
immediately preceding the date on which the Commissioner
received the complaint, unless the Commissioner is
satisfied that in all the circumstances of the case it is
proper to carry out or continue the investigation;
(b) if the complaint is made anonymously;
(c) if the complainant cannot be identified or traced;

Personal Data Protection

71

(d) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the relevant data
user has not been a data user for a period of not less
than two years immediately preceding the date on which
the Commissioner received the complaint; or
(e) in any other circumstances as he thinks fit.
(3) Where the Commissioner refuses under this section to carry
out or continue an investigation initiated by a complaint, he shall,
as soon as practicable but in any case not later than thirty days
after the date of receipt of the complaint, by notice in writing
served on the complainant inform the complainant of the refusal
and of the reasons for the refusal.
(4) An appeal may be made to the Appeal Tribunal against
any refusal specified in the notice under subsection (3) by the
complainant on whom the notice was served or if the complainant
is a relevant person, by the data subject in respect of whom the
complainant is the relevant person.
Commissioner may carry out or continue investigation initiated
by complaint notwithstanding withdrawal of complaint
107. Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that it is in
the public interest so to do, he may carry out or continue an
investigation initiated by a complaint notwithstanding that the
complainant has withdrawn the complaint and, in any such case,
the provisions of this Act shall apply to the complaint and the
complainant as if the complaint had not been withdrawn.
Enforcement notice
108. (1) Where, following the completion of an investigation
about an act, practice or request specified in the complaint, the
Commissioner is of the opinion that the relevant data user—
(a) is contravening a provision of this Act; or
(b) has contravened such a provision in circumstances that
make it likely that the contravention will continue or
be repeated,

72

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

then the Commissioner may serve on the relevant data user an
enforcement notice—
(A) stating that he is of that opinion;
(B) specifying the provision of this Act on which he has
based that opinion and the reasons why he is of that
opinion;
(C) directing the relevant data user to take such steps as
are specified in the enforcement notice to remedy
the contravention or, as the case may be, the matters
occasioning it within such period as is specified in the
enforcement notice; and
(D) directing, where necessary, the relevant data user to cease
processing the personal data pending the remedy of the
contravention by the relevant data user.
(2) In deciding whether to serve an enforcement notice, the
Commissioner shall consider whether the contravention or the
matter to which the enforcement notice relates has caused or
is likely to cause damage or distress to the data subject of the
personal data to which the contravention or matter relates.
(3) The steps as specified in the enforcement notice to remedy
the contravention or matter to which the enforcement notice relates
may be framed—
(a) to any extent by reference to any approved code of
practice; or
(b) so as to afford the relevant data user a choice between
different ways of remedying the contravention or
matter.
(4) The period specified in the enforcement notice under
subsection (1) for taking the steps specified in it shall not expire
before the end of the period specified in subsection 93(2) within
which an appeal against the enforcement notice may be made
and, if such an appeal is made, those steps need not be taken
pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), if the Commissioner is
of the opinion that by reason of special circumstances the steps

Personal Data Protection

73

specified in the enforcement notice should be taken as a matter
of urgency—
(a) he may include a statement to that effect in the enforcement
notice together with the reasons why he is of that opinion;
and
(b) where such a statement is so included, subsection (4) shall
not apply but the enforcement notice shall not require
those steps to be taken before the end of the period of
seven days from the date on which the enforcement
notice was served.
(6) An appeal may be made to the Appeal Tribunal against an
enforcement notice by the relevant data user in accordance with
section 93.
(7) Where the Commissioner—
(a) forms an opinion referred to in subsection (1) in respect of
the relevant data user at any time before the completion
of an investigation; and
(b) is also of the opinion that, by reason of special circumstances,
an enforcement notice should be served on the relevant
data user as a matter of urgency,
he may so serve the enforcement notice notwithstanding that the
investigation has not been completed and, in any such case—
(A) the Commissioner shall, without prejudice to any other
matters to be included in the enforcement notice, specify
in the enforcement notice the reasons as to why he is
of the opinion referred to in paragraph (b); and
(B) the other provisions of this Act, including this section,
shall be construed accordingly.
(8) A person who fails to comply with an enforcement notice
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
not exceeding two hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two years or to both.
Variation or cancellation of enforcement notice
109. The Commissioner may, on his own initiative or on the
application of a relevant data user, vary or cancel the enforcement

74

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

notice served under subsection 108(1) by notice in writing to the
relevant data user if the Commissioner is satisfied with the action
taken by the relevant data user to remedy the contravention.
PART IX
ENFORCEMENT

Authorized officers
110. The Commissioner may in writing authorize any officer
appointed under sections 50 and 51 or any public officer to
exercise the powers of enforcement under this Act.
Authority card
111. (1) The Commissioner shall issue to each authorized officer
an authority card which shall be signed by the Commissioner.
(2) Whenever the authorized officer exercises any of the powers
of enforcement under this Act, he shall produce on demand to the
person against whom the power is being exercised the authority
card issued to him under subsection (1).
Power of investigation
112. (1) An authorized officer may investigate the commission
of any offence under this Act.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is declared that for the
purposes of this Act, the authorized officer shall have all or any
of the special powers of a police officer of whatever rank in
relation to police investigations in seizable cases as provided for
under the Criminal Procedure Code [Act 593], and such powers
shall be in addition to the powers provided for under this Act
and not in derogation thereof.
Search and seizure with warrant
113. (1) If it appears to a Magistrate, upon written information
on oath from the authorized officer and after such inquiry as the

Personal Data Protection

75

Magistrate considers necessary, that there is reasonable cause to
believe that—
(a) any premises has been used for; or
(b) there is in any premises evidence necessary to the conduct
of an investigation into,
the commission of an offence under this Act, the Magistrate may
issue a warrant authorizing the authorized officer named in the
warrant at any reasonable time by day or night and with or without
assistance, to enter the premises and if need be by force.
(2) Without affecting the generality of subsection (1), the
warrant issued by the Magistrate may authorize the search and
seizure of—
(a) any computer, book, account, computerized data or other
document which contains or is reasonably suspected to
contain information as to any offence suspected to have
been committed;
(b) any signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet or notice
representing or implying that the person is registered
under this Act; or
(c) any equipment, instrument or article that is reasonably
believed to furnish evidence of the commission of the
offence.
(3) An authorized officer conducting a search under
subsection (1) may, for the purpose of investigating into the
offence, search any person who is in or on the premises.
(4) An authorized officer making a search of a person under
subsection (3) or section 114 may seize or take possession of, and
place in safe custody all things other than the necessary clothing
found upon the person, and any of those things which there is
reason to believe were the instruments or other evidence of the
offence may be detained until the discharge or acquittal of the
person.
(5) Whenever it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched,
the search shall be made by another woman with strict regard to
decency.

76

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(6) If, by the reason of its nature, size or amount, it is not
practicable to remove any computer, book, account, computerized
data or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article seized under this section,
the authorized officer shall by any means seal such computer,
book, account, computerized data or other document, signboard,
card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or
article in the premises or container in which it is found.
(7) A person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with
or damages the seal referred to in subsection (6) or removes any
computer, book, account, computerized data or other document,
signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment,
instrument or article under seal or attempts to do so commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
fifty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
six months or to both.
Search and seizure without warrant
114. If an authorized officer is satisfied upon information received
that he has reasonable cause to believe that by reason of delay
in obtaining a search warrant under section 113 the investigation
would be adversely affected or evidence of the commission of
an offence is likely to be tampered with, removed, damaged or
destroyed, the authorized officer may enter the premises and
exercise in, upon and in respect of the premises all the powers
referred to in section 113 in as full and ample a manner as if
he were authorized to do so by a warrant issued under that
section.
Access to computerized data
115. (1) An authorized officer conducting a search under
sections 113 and 114 shall be given access to computerized data
whether stored in a computer or otherwise.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “access”—
(a) includes being provided with the necessary password,
encryption code, decryption code, software or hardware
and any other means required to enable comprehension
of computerized data; and

Personal Data Protection

77

(b) has the meaning assigned to it by subsections 2(2) and
(5) of the Computer Crimes Act 1997 [Act 563].
Warrant admissible notwithstanding defects
116. A search warrant issued under this Act shall be valid and
enforceable notwithstanding any defect, mistake or omission
therein or in the application for such warrant, and any computer,
book, account, computerized data or other document, signboard,
card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or
article seized under such warrant shall be admissible in evidence
in any proceedings under this Act.
List of computer, book, account, etc., seized
117. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), where any computer,
book, account, computerized data or other document, signboard,
card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or
article is seized pursuant to this Act, the authorized officer making
the seizure—
(a) shall prepare—
(i) a list of the computer, book, account, computerized
data or other document, signboard, card, letter,
pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument
or article seized and shall sign the list; and
(ii) a written notice of the seizure containing the grounds
for the seizure and shall sign the notice; and
(b) shall as soon as practicable serve a copy of the list of
the computer, book, account, computerized data or other
document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice,
equipment, instrument or article seized and the written
notice of the seizure to the occupier of the premises
which have been searched, or to his agent or servant
at those premises.
(2) The written notice of the seizure shall not be required to
be served in pursuance of paragraph (1)(b) where the seizure is
made in the presence of the person against whom proceedings
under this Act are intended to be taken, or in the presence of the
owner of such property or his agent, as the case may be.

78

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(3) If the premises are unoccupied, the authorized officer shall
post a copy of the list of the computer, book, account, computerized
data or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article seized conspicuously on
the premises.
Release of computer, book, account, etc., seized
118. (1) If any computer, book, account, computerized data or
other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice,
equipment, instrument or article has been seized under this
Act, the authorized officer who effected the seizure may, after
referring to the Public Prosecutor, release the computer, book,
account, computerized data or other document, signboard, card,
letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article
to the person as he determines to be lawfully entitled to it, if the
computer, book, account, computerized data or other document,
signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment,
instrument or article is not liable to forfeiture under this Act,
and is not otherwise required for the purpose of any proceedings
under this Act or for the purpose of any prosecution under any
other written law, and in such event neither the authorized officer
effecting the seizure, nor the Federal Government, Commissioner
or any person acting on behalf of the Federal Government or
Commissioner shall be liable to any proceedings by any person
if the seizure and the release of the computer, book, account,
computerized data or other document, signboard, card, letter,
pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article had
been effected in good faith.
(2) A record in writing shall be made by the authorized officer
effecting the release of the computer, book, account, computerized
data or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article under subsection (1)
specifying in detail the circumstances of and the reason for the
release, and he shall send a copy of the record to the Public
Prosecutor within seven days of the release.
No cost or damages arising from seizure to be recoverable
119. No person shall, in any proceedings before any court in
respect of any computer, book, account, computerized data or
other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice,

Personal Data Protection

79

equipment, instrument or article seized in the exercise or the
purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, be
entitled to the costs of such proceedings or to any damages or
other relief unless such seizure was made without reasonable
cause.
Obstruction to search
120. Any person who—
(a) refuses any authorized officer access to any premise
which the authorized officer is entitled to have under
this Act or in the execution of any duty imposed or
power conferred by this Act;
(b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays any authorized officer
in effecting any entry which the authorized officer is
entitled to effect under this Act, or in the execution of
any duty imposed or power conferred by this Act; or
(c) refuses any authorized officer any information relating to
an offence or suspected offence under this Act or any
other information which may reasonably be required
of him and which he has in his knowledge or power to
give,
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine
not exceeding ten thousand ringgit or to both.
Power to require production of computer, book, account,
etc.
121. An authorized officer shall, for the purposes of the execution
of this Act, have the power to do all or any of the following:
(a) to require the production of any computer, book, account,
computerized data or other document kept by the data
user or any other person and to inspect, examine and
to download from them, make copies of them or take
extracts from them;
(b) to require the production of any identification document
from any person in relation to any act or offence under
this Act;

80

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(c) to make such enquiries as may be necessary to ascertain
whether the provisions of this Act have been complied
with.
Power to require attendance of persons acquainted with
case
122. (1) An authorized officer making an investigation under
this Act may by order in writing require the attendance before
himself of any person who appears to the authorized officer to
be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case, and
such person shall attend as so required.
(2) If any person refuses or fails to attend as so required,
the authorized officer may report such refusal or failure to a
Magistrate who shall issue a summons to secure the attendance
of such person as may be required by the order made under
subsection (1).
Examination of persons acquainted with case
123. (1) An authorized officer making an investigation under this
Act may examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
with the facts and circumstances of the case and shall reduce
into writing any statement made by the person so examined.
(2) Such person shall be bound to answer all questions relating
to the case put to him by the authorized officer:
Provided that such person may refuse to answer any question
the answer to which would have a tendency to expose him to a
criminal charge or penalty or forfeiture.
(3) A person making a statement under this section shall be
legally bound to state the truth, whether or not such statement
is made wholly or partly in answer to questions.
(4) The authorized officer examining a person under
subsection (1) shall first inform that person of the provisions of
subsections (2) and (3).

Personal Data Protection

81

(5) A statement made by any person under this section shall,
whenever possible, be taken down in writing and signed by the
person making it or affixed with his thumb print, as the case
may be, after it has been read to him in the language in which
he made it and after he has been given an opportunity to make
any corrections he may wish.
Admission of statements in evidence
124. (1) Except as provided in this section, no statement made
by any person to an authorized officer in the course of an
investigation made under this Act shall be used in evidence.
(2) When any witness is called for the prosecution or for the
defence, other than the accused, the court shall, on the request
of the accused or the prosecutor, refer to any statement made
by that witness to the authorized officer in the course of the
investigation under this Act and may then, if the courts thinks fit
in the interest of justice, direct the accused to be furnished with
a copy of it and the statement may be used to impeach the credit
of the witness in the manner provided by the Evidence Act 1950
[Act 56].
(3) Where the accused had made a statement during the course
of an investigation, such statement may be admitted in evidence
in support of his defence during the course of the trial.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any
statement made in the course of an identification parade or
falling within section 27 or paragraphs 32(1)(a), (i) and (j) of
the Evidence Act 1950.
(5) When any person is charged with any offence in relation
to—
(a) the making; or
(b) the contents,
of any statement made by him to an authorized officer in the
course of an investigation made under this Act, that statement
may be used as evidence in the prosecution’s case.

82

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Forfeiture of computer, book, account, etc., seized
125. (1) Any computer, book, account, computerized data
or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article seized shall be liable to
forfeiture.
(2) An order for the forfeiture of the computer, book, account,
computerized data or other document, signboard, card, letter,
pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article seized
and liable to forfeiture under this Act shall be made by the court
before which the prosecution with regard thereto has been held
if it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that an offence
under this Act has been committed and that the computer, book,
account, computerized data or other document, signboard, card,
letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article
seized was the subject matter of or was used in the commission
of the offence, notwithstanding that no person has been convicted
of such offence.
(3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any computer, book,
account, computerized data or other document, signboard, card,
letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article
seized under this Act, such computer, book, account, computerized
data or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article shall be taken and deemed
to be forfeited at the expiration of a period of one calendar month
from the date of service of a notice to the last-known address of
the person from whom the computer, book, account, computerized
data or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article was seized indicating
that there is no prosecution in respect of such computer, book,
account, computerized data or other document, signboard, card,
letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article,
unless before the expiration of that period a claim thereto is made
in the manner set out in subsections (4), (5) and (6).
(4) Any person asserting that he is the owner of the computer,
book, account, computerized data or other document, signboard,
card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument
or article referred to in subsection (3) and that it is not liable
to forfeiture may, personally or by his agent authorized in
writing, give written notice to the authorized officer in whose
possession such computer, book, account, computerized data or

Personal Data Protection

83

other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice,
equipment, instrument or article is held that he claims the computer,
book, account, computerized data or other document, signboard,
card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or
article.
(5) On receipt of the notice under subsection (4), the authorized
officer shall refer the matter to a Magistrate for his decision.
(6) The Magistrate to whom the matter is referred under
subsection (5) shall issue a summons requiring the person
asserting that he is the owner of the computer, book, account,
computerized data or other document, signboard, card, letter,
pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article and the
person from whom it was seized to appear before the Magistrate,
and upon their appearance or default to appear, due service of
the summons having been proved, the Magistrate shall proceed
to the examination of the matter and, on proof that an offence
under this Act has been committed and that the computer, book,
account, computerized data or other document, signboard, card,
letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article
seized was the subject matter of or was used in the commission
of such offence, the Magistrate shall order the computer, book,
account, computerized data or other document, signboard, card,
letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice, equipment, instrument or article
to be forfeited, and shall, in the absence of such proof, order its
release.
(7) Any computer, book, account, computerized data or other
document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice,
equipment, instrument or article forfeited or deemed to be forfeited
shall be delivered to the Commissioner and shall be disposed of
in such manner as the Commissioner thinks fit.
Joinder of offences
126. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 164 of the
Criminal Procedure Code, where a person is accused of more than
one offence under this Act, he may be charged with and tried at
one trial for any number of such offences committed within the
space of any length of time.

84

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

Power of arrest
127. (1) An authorized officer or police officer may arrest without
warrant any person whom he reasonably believes has committed
or is attempting to commit an offence under this Act.
(2) An authorized officer making an arrest under subsection (1)
shall without unnecessary delay make over the person so arrested
to the nearest police officer or, in the absence of a police officer,
take such person to the nearest police station, and thereafter the
person shall be dealt with as is provided for by the law relating
to criminal procedure for the time being in force as if he had
been arrested by a police officer.
PART X
MISCELLANEOUS

Register
128. (1) The Commissioner shall maintain in both physical and
electronic forms a register as required under this Act.
(2) A person may on payment of the prescribed fee—
(a) inspect the register; or
(b) make a copy of or take extracts from an entry in the
register.
(3) Where a person requests that a copy of an entry in the
register be provided in an electronic form, the Commissioner may
provide the relevant information by way of electronic means.
Transfer of personal data to places outside Malaysia
129. (1) A data user shall not transfer any personal data of a
data subject to a place outside Malaysia unless to such place
as specified by the Minister, upon the recommendation of the
Commissioner, by notification published in the Gazette.

Personal Data Protection

85

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may specify
any place outside Malaysia if—
(a) there is in that place in force any law which is substantially
similar to this Act, or that serves the same purposes as
this Act; or
(b) that place ensures an adequate level of protection in
relation to the processing of personal data which is at
least equivalent to the level of protection afforded by
this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a data user may transfer
any personal data to a place outside Malaysia if—
(a) the data subject has given his consent to the transfer;
(b) the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract
between the data subject and the data user;
(c) the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance
of a contract between the data user and a third party
which—
(i) is entered into at the request of the data subject;
or
(ii) is in the interests of the data subject;
(d) the transfer is for the purpose of any legal proceedings
or for the purpose of obtaining legal advice or for
establishing, exercising or defending legal rights;
(e) the data user has reasonable grounds for believing that
in all circumstances of the case—
(i) the transfer is for the avoidance or mitigation of
adverse action against the data subject;
(ii) it is not practicable to obtain the consent in writing
of the data subject to that transfer; and
(iii) if it was practicable to obtain such consent, the
data subject would have given his consent;
(f) the data user has taken all reasonable precautions and
exercised all due diligence to ensure that the personal

86

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

data will not in that place be processed in any manner
which, if that place is Malaysia, would be a contravention
of this Act;
(g) the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital
interests of the data subject; or
(h) the transfer is necessary as being in the public interest
in circumstances as determined by the Minister.
(4) Where the Commissioner has reasonable grounds for
believing that in a place as specified under subsection (1) there
is no longer in force any law which is substantially similar to
this Act, or that serves the same purposes as this Act—
(a) the Commissioner shall make such recommendations to
the Minister who shall, either by cancelling or amending
the notification made under subsection (1), cause that
place to cease to be a place to which personal data may
be transferred under this section; and
(b) the data user shall cease to transfer any personal data of
a data subject to such place with effect from the time
as specified by the Minister in the notification.
(5) A data user who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
three hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to both.
(6) For the purposes of this section, “adverse action”, in
relation to a data subject, means any action that may adversely
affect the data subject’s rights, benefits, privileges, obligations
or interests.
Unlawful collecting, etc., of personal data
130. (1) A person shall not knowingly or recklessly, without
the consent of the data user—
(a) collect or disclose personal data that is held by the data
user; or
(b) procure the disclosure to another person of personal data
that is held by the data user.

Personal Data Protection

87

(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to a person who shows—
(a) that the collecting or disclosing of personal data or
procuring the disclosure of personal data—
(i) was necessary for the purpose of preventing or
detecting a crime or for the purpose of investigations;
or
(ii) was required or authorized by or under any law or
by the order of a court;
(b) that he acted in the reasonable belief that he had in law
the right to collect or disclose the personal data or to
procure the disclosure of the personal data to the other
person;
(c) that he acted in the reasonable belief that he would have
had the consent of the data user if the data user had
known of the collecting or disclosing of personal data
or procuring the disclosure of personal data and the
circumstances of it; or
(d) that the collecting or disclosing of personal data or procuring
the disclosure of personal data was justified as being
in the public interest in circumstances as determined by
the Minister.
(3) A person who collects or discloses personal data or procures
the disclosure of personal data in contravention of subsection (1)
commits an offence.
(4) A person who sells personal data commits an offenceif he has
collected the personal data in contravention of subsection (1).
(5) A person who offers to sell personal data commits an
offence if—
(a) he has collected the personal data in contravention of
subsection (1); or
(b) he subsequently collects the personal data in contravention
of subsection (1).

88

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(6) For the purposes of subsection (5), an advertisement
indicating that personal data is or may be for sale is an offer to
sell the personal data.
(7) A person who commits an offence under this section shall,
upon conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three years or to both.
Abetment and attempt punishable as offences
131. (1) A person who abets the commission of or who attempts
to commit any offence under this Act shall be guilty of that
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to the punishment
provided for that offence.
(2) A person who does any act preparatory to or in furtherance
of the commission of any offence under this Act shall be guilty of
that offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to the punishment
provided for the offence:
Provided that any term of imprisonment imposed shall not exceed
one-half of the maximum term provided for the offence.
Compounding of offences
132. (1) The Commissioner may, with the consent in writing
of the Public Prosecutor, compound any offence committed by
any person under this Act and prescribed to be a compoundable
offence by making a written offer to the person suspected to have
committed the offence to compound the offence upon payment to
the Commissioner of an amount of money not exceeding fifty per
centum of the amount of maximum fine for that offence within
such time as may be specified in his written offer.
(2) An offer under subsection (1) may be made at any time
after the offence has been committed but before any prosecution
for it has been instituted, and if the amount specified in the
offer is not paid within the time specified in the offer or such
extended time as the Commissioner may grant, prosecution for
the offence may be instituted at any time after that against the
person to whom the offer was made.

Personal Data Protection

89

(3) W h e r e a n o ff e n c e h a s b e e n c o m p o u n d e d u n d e r
subsection (1), no prosecution shall be instituted in respect of
the offence against the person to whom the offer to compound
was made, and any computer, book, account, computerized data
or other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet,
notice, equipment, instrument or article seized in connection with
the offence may be released or forfeited by the Commissioner,
subject to such terms and conditions as he thinks fit to impose
in accordance with the conditions of the compound.
(4) All sums of money received by the Commissioner under
this section shall be paid into the Federal Consolidated Fund.

Offences by body corporate
133. (1) If a body corporate commits an offence under this Act,
any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was
a director, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or was
purporting to act in any such capacity or was in any manner or to
any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs
of the body corporate or was assisting in such management—
(a) may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings
with the body corporate; and
(b) if the body corporate is found to have committed the
offence, shall be deemed to have committed that offence
unless, having regard to the nature of his functions in
that capacity and to all circumstances, he proves—
(i) that the offence was committed without his knowledge,
consent or connivance; and
(ii) that he had taken all reasonable precautions and
exercised due diligence to prevent the commission
of the offence.
(2) If any person would be liable under this Act to any
punishment or penalty for his act, omission, neglect or default,
he shall be liable to the same punishment or penalty for every

90

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

such act, omission, neglect or default of any employee or agent
of his, or of the employee of the agent, if the act, omission,
neglect or default was committed—
(a) by that person’s employee in the course of his
employment;
(b) by the agent when acting on behalf of that person; or
(c) by the employee of the agent in the course of his
employment by the agent or otherwise on behalf of the
agent acting on behalf of that person.
Prosecution
134. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be
instituted except by or with the written consent of the Public
Prosecutor.
Jurisdiction to try offences
135. Notwithstanding any other written law to the contrary, a
Sessions Court shall have jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and to impose full punishment for any such offence
under this Act.
Service of notices or other documents
136. (1) Service of a notice or any other document upon any
person shall be effected—
(a) by the delivering the notice or other document to the
person;
(b) by leaving the notice or other document at the last-known
address of residence or place of business of the person
in a cover addressed to that person; or
(c) by forwarding the notice or other document by post in
an A.R. registered letter addressed to the person at his
last-known address of residence or place of business.
(2) Where the person to whom there has been addressed an
A.R. registered letter containing any notice or other document
which may be given under this Act is informed of the fact that

Personal Data Protection

91

there is an A.R. registered letter awaiting him at a post office,
and such person refuses or neglects to take delivery of such A.R.
registered letter, such notice or other document shall be deemed
to have been served upon him on the date on which he was so
informed.
Public Authorities Protection Act 1948
137. The Public Authorities Protection Act 1948 [Act 198] shall
apply to any action, suit, prosecution or proceedings against the
Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner,
any officer or servant of the Commissioner, any member of the
Advisory Committee, any member, officer or servant of the Appeal
Tribunal, or any authorized officer in respect of any act, neglect
or default done or omitted by him or it in such capacity.
Public servant
138. The Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant
Commissioner, any officer or servant of the Commissioner, any
member of the Advisory Committee, any member, officer or
servant of the Appeal Tribunal, or any authorized officer while
discharging his duty or performing his functions or exercising
his powers under this Act in such capacity shall be deemed
to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code
[Act 574].
Protection against suit and legal proceedings
139. No action, suit, prosecution or other proceedings shall lie
or be brought, instituted or maintained in any court against—
(a) the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant
Commissioner or any officer or servant of the
Commissioner;
(b) any member of the Advisory Committee;
(c) any member, officer or servant of the Appeal Tribunal;
or

92

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(d) any authorized officer,
in respect of any act or omission done or omitted by him or it
in good faith in such capacity.
Protection of informers
140. (1) Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3), no
witness in any civil or criminal proceedings pursuant to this Act
shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address
of any informer or the substance and nature of the information
received from him or state any matter which might lead to his
discovery.
(2) If any computer, book, account, computerized data or
other document, signboard, card, letter, pamphlet, leaflet, notice,
equipment, instrument or article which is in evidence or is liable
to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings whatsoever
contains any entry in which any informer is named or described or
which might lead to his discovery, the court shall cause all such
entries to be concealed from view or to be obliterated in so far
as may be necessary to protect the informer from discovery.
(3) If in a trial for any offence under this Act the court, after
full inquiry into the case, is of the opinion that the informer
wilfully made in his complaint a material statement which he knew
or believed to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in any
other proceedings the court is of the opinion that justice cannot
be fully done between the parties in the proceeding without the
discovery of the informer, the court may require the production
of the original complaint, if in writing, and permit an inquiry
and require full disclosure concerning the informer.
Obligation of secrecy
141. (1) Except for any of the purposes of this Act or for the
purposes of any civil or criminal proceedings under any written
law or where otherwise authorized by the Minister—
(a) the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant
Commissioner, any officer or servant of the Commissioner,
any member of the Advisory Committee, any member,
officer or servant of the Appeal Tribunal, any authorized

Personal Data Protection

93

officer or any person attending any meeting or deliberation
of the Advisory Committee, whether during or after his
tenure of office or employment, shall not disclose any
information obtained by him in the course of his duties;
and
(b) no other person who has by any means access to any
information or documents relating to the affairs of
the Commissioner shall disclose such information or
document.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to both.
Things done in anticipation of the enactment of this Act
142. All acts and things done by any person in preparation
for or in anticipation of the enactment of this Act and any
expenditure incurred in relation thereto shall be deemed to have
been authorized under this Act, provided that the acts and things
done are consistent with the general intention and purposes of this
Act; and all rights and obligations acquired or incurred as a result
of the doing of those acts or things including any expenditure
incurred in relation thereto, shall on the coming into operation
of this Act be deemed to be the rights and obligations of the
Commissioner.
Power to make regulations
143. (1) The Minister may make such regulations as may be
necessary or expedient for the purpose of carrying into effect
the provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred
by subsection (1), the Minister may make regulations for all or
any of the following purposes:
(a) to regulate all matters relating to the registration of data
users under this Act, including to prescribe the registration
fees and renewal fees;

94

Laws of Malaysia

ACT 709

(b) to regulate all matters necessary for the implementation
of the Personal Data Protection Principles;
(c) to regulate procedures in respect of the inspection of
personal data systems, investigation of complaints and
issuance of enforcement notices, and all other matters
related to it;
(d) to prescribe the offences which may be compounded and
the forms to be used and the method and procedure for
compounding the offences;
(e) to provide and prescribe for any fees payable in connection
with the provision of any service or any matter under
this Act;
(f) to prescribe any matter for which this Act makes express
provision to be made by regulations;
(g) to prescribe all other matters as are necessary or expedient
to be prescribed for giving effect to this Act.
(3) The regulations made under this section or any other
subsidiary legislation made under this Act may prescribe for
any act or omission in contravention of the regulations or other
subsidiary legislation to be an offence and may prescribe for
penalties of a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand
ringgit or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or
to both.
Prevention of anomalies
144. (1) The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette,
make such modifications to the provisions of this Act as may
appear to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of
removing any difficulties or preventing anomalies in consequence
of the coming into operation of this Act.
(2) The Minister shall not exercise the powers conferred by
subsection (1) after the expiration of one year from the appointed
date.

Personal Data Protection

95

(3) In this section, “modifications” means amendments, additions,
deletions and substitutions of any provisions of this Act.
PART XI
SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Personal data processed before the date of coming into
operation of this Act
145. Where a data user has collected personal data from the
data subject or any third party before the date of coming into
operation of this Act, he shall comply with the provisions of this
Act within three months from the date of coming into operation
of this Act.
Registration of persons who process personal data before the
date of coming into operation of this Act
146. (1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who at the date
of coming into operation of this Act either alone or jointly or in
common with other persons processes any personal data or has
control over or authorizes the processing of any personal data,
shall within three months from the date of coming into operation
of this Act be registered as a data user in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to a data user who does
not belong to the class of data users who shall be required to
be registered as data users in pursuance of the provisions of
Division 2 of Part II.

DICETAK OLEH
PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD,
KUALA LUMPUR
BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINTAH KERAJAAN MALAYSIA

