The Malawi Gazette Supplement, dated 4th November, 2016, containing
Acts
(No. 6C)
MALAWI GOVERNMENT

(Published 4th November, 2016)

ACT

No. 33 of 2016
I assent

PRO. ARTHUR PETER MUTHARIKA

PRESIDENT

20th October, 2016

SECTION

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

PART I__PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Short title and commencement
Interpretation
Objective of the Act
Principles
Implementation of this Act

PART II__ADMINISTRATION
6. Establishment of the Malawi CERT

PART III__FORMATION AND VALIDITY OF ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS
7. Recognition of electronic writing
8. Electronic signature
9. Equal treatment of digital signatures
10. Conduct of a person relying on a digital signature
11. Bearing legal consequences of relying on electronic
signature
12. Recognition of digital signature certificates and digital
signatures
13. Notarization, acknowledgement and certification
14. Other requirements
15. Determination of originality of an electronic message
16. Admissibility and evidential weight of electronic messages
17. Storage of electronic messages
18. Secure electronic record
19. Validity of a contract executed in electronic form

2

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

SECTION

20. Time and place of dispatch and receipt of an electronic
message
21. Offer and acceptance
22. Attribution of electronic messages to sender
23. Acknowledgement of receipt of an electronic message

PART IV__LIABILITY OF ONLINE INTERMEDIARIES AND CONTENT
EDITORS AND PROTECTION OF ONLINE USERS
24. Freedom of communication and its limitations
25. Liability of an intermediary service provider
26. Liability for being a conduit
27. Liability for caching services
28. Liability for the supply of hosting services
29. Saving of data
30. Takedown notification
31. Online content editors
32. Right to reply
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.

PART V__ELECTRONIC COMMERCE
Information to be provided by supplier
Formation of electronic contracts with consumers
Cooling off period
Performance of an electronic transaction
Default in contract performance
Review and cancellation of contract by a consumer
Cancellation of payment
Prohibition of misleading advertising
Identification of advertisement content
Unsolicited communication
Scope of application of financial provisions
Identity of a provider of financial or banking services
Right of withdrawal from a contract
PART VI__SECURITY AND DIGITAL ECONOMY
Use, supply, transfer, etc.
Presumptions regarding digital signature certificates
Unreliable digital signatures
Reliance on digital signature and certificate
Requirements to publish digital signature certificate

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

SECTION

51.
52.
53
54.
55.
56.

57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.

71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.

The Authority to appoint a certification authority
Encryption
Trustworthy system
Disclosure
Issuing a digital signature certificate
Representations upon issuance of a digital ignature
certificate
Suspension of a digital signature certificate
Revocation of a digital signature certificate
Revocation without a subscriber's consent
Notice of suspension of digital signature certificate
Notification of revocation of a digital signature certificate
Generating a key pair
Accurate and complete representations
Acceptance of a digital signature certificate
Control of a private key
Requesting for suspension or revocation
Provision of encryption services
Administrative sanctions
Appointment of cyber inspectors
Powers and functions of a cyber inspector

PART VII__DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
Processing of personal data
Rights of a data subject
Accuracy and completeness of information
Security obligations

PART VIII__DOMAIN NAME AND MANAGEMENT
Appointment of the Registrar of domain names
Functions of the Registrar
Recommendations relating to domain names
Offence of administering domain name without authority
Dispute resolution concerning domain names

PART IX__ELECTRONIC-GOVERNMENT TRANSACTIONS
80. Requirement of electronic filing and issuing of documents
81. Specific guidelines to public bodies
82. Implementation of e-government

3

4

Electronic Transactions
SECTION

83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.

90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.

96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104

No. 33

PART X__OFFENCES

Search warrant
Unauthorized access, interception or interference with data
Child pornography
Prohibition of cyber harassment
Prohibition of offensive communication
Prohibition of cyber stalking
Prohibition of hacking, cracking and introduction of
viruses
Unlawfully disabling a computer system
Prohibition of spamming
Prohibition of illegal trade and commerce
Attempting, aiding and abetting crimes
Offences committed by legal persons
General offence and penalty

PART XI__GENERAL PROVISIONS
Lodging of complaints to the Authority
Public education programmes
Intermediary services providers' levy
Codes of conduct
Act to prevail in case of inconsistency
Administrative penalties
Regulations
Exemption orders
Transitional provision

An Act to make provision for electronic transactions; for the
establishment and functions of the Malawi Computer
Emergency Response Team (MCERT); to make provision for
criminalizing offences related to computer systems and
information communication technologies; and provide for
investigation, collection and use of electronic evidence; and for
matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.
ENACTED by the Parliament of Malawi as follows__

No. 33

5

Electronic Transactions

PART I__PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS

1. This Act may be cited as the Electronic Transactions and
Cyber Security Act, 2016, and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint, by notice published in the Gazette.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires__

“Authority” means the Malawi Communications Regulatory
Authority established under section 3 of the Communications
Act;
“CCTLD” means the Country Code Top Level Domain which
is at the top level of the internet domain name, system assigned
according to the two letter codes in the international standards
ISO3166–1 by ICANN;
“certification authority” means a trusted third party
organization or company licensed or authorized by the Authority
to issue digital certificates used to create digital signatures and
public-private key pairs;
“child pornography” means visual and pornographic material
that depicts, presents or represents a person under the age of
eighteen engaged in sexually explicit conduct or an image
representing a person under the age of eighteen engaged in
sexually explicit conduct;
“comparative advertising” means any advertising which
explicitly or impliedly identifies a competitor, or goods or
services offered by a competitor;
“computer system” means a device or a group of interconnected or related devices, one or more of which performs automatic
processing of data pursuant to a program;
“consumer” means any person who enters or intends to enter
into a contract by electronic means with a supplier as the end-user
of the goods or services offered by the supplier and acts, for that
purpose, outside his trade, business or profession;
“content provider” means a person or organization who
supplies information for use on a website or an electronic media
platform;
“critical data” means data which is declared by the Minister in
accordance with this Act, to be of importance to the protection of
national security of the Republic or the economic and socio well
being of its citizens;
“cryptography “ means the method of storing and transmitting
data by transferring it into unreadable format so that only those
for whom it is intended can process and read it;

Short title and
commencement
Interpretation
Cap 68:01

6

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

“cyber inspector” means a person appointed as such under
section 69;
“data” means electronic presentation of information in any
form;
“data controller” means a person who, acting either alone or in
common with other persons, determines the purpose for which,
and the manner in which, any personal data is processed, or is to
be processed and thus, controls and is responsible for the keeping
and using of personal data, and the term includes a person who
collects, processes or stores personal data;
“data subject” means a person from whom data relating to that
person is collected, processed or stored by a data controller;
“digital certificate” means an electronic document to prove
ownership of a public key, and certificate includes information
about the key owners’ identity and the digital signature if an
entity that has verified the certificates contents are correct;
“digital signature” means an electronic signature consisting of
a transformation of an electronic message using an asymmetric
crypto system and a hash function such that a person having the
initial and transformed electronic message and the signatory’s
public key can accurately determine__
(a) whether the transformation was created using the private
key that corresponds with the signatory's public key; and
(b) whether the initial electronic message is as it was after
the transformation was made;
“digital signature certificate” means a record which is issued
by the Authority for the purpose of supporting a digital signature;
“distance contract” means any contract concluded between a
supplier and a consumer under an organized remote sales or
service-provision scheme run by the supplier, who, for the
purpose of that contract, makes exclusive use of one or more
electronic means up to and including the time at which the
contract is concluded;
“domain name” means an alphanumeric designation that is
registered or assigned in respect of an electronic address or other
resources on the internet;
“e-government service” means a public service provided by
electronic means;
“electronic commerce” means any economic activity provided
by electronic means, including remote services and products,
particularly services that consist of providing online information,

No. 33

7

Electronic Transactions

commercial communications, research tools, or access to, or
downloading of, online data, access to a communication network
or the hosting of information;
“electronic message” means any communication created, sent,
received or stored by electronic communication means, such as
computerized data exchange system, electronic mail system and
instant messaging;
“electronic record” means a record created, generated, sent,
communicated, received and maintained by electronic means;
“electronic signature” means data attached to, incorporated in,
or logically associated with, other data and which is intended by
the user to serve as a signature;
“encryption” means a method of transforming signals or
messages in a systematic way so that the signal would be
unintelligible without a suitable receiving apparatus;
“financial services” has the meaning ascribed to the term under
section 2 of the Financial Services Act;
“financial services law” has the meaning ascribed to the term
under section 2 of the Financial Services Act;
“ICANN” means Internet Corporation for Assigned Name and
Numbers;
“information system” means a system for generating, sending,
receiving, storing, displaying or otherwise processing electronic
messages, including internet;
“intermediary service provider” means any person or entity
that provides electronic communications services consisting of
the provision of access to communications networks, storage,
hosting or transmission of information through communication
networks;
“internet” means the interconnected system of networks that
connects computers around the world using Transmission Control
Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) or other protocols, and
includes future versions thereof;
“Internet Service Provider (ISP)” means a company that
provides access to the internet and other related services such as
website building and virtual hosting to individuals or other
companies;
“key” means a piece of information that determines the
functional output of a cryptographic algorithm;
“key pair” means a pair of keys used for cryptography;
“Malawi CERT” means the Malawi Computer Emergency
Response Team established under section 6;

Cap. 44:05
Cap. 44:05

8

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

“misleading advertising” means any advertising which in any
way, including its presentation, deceives or is likely to deceive a
person to whom it is addressed or whom it reaches and which, by
reason of its deceptive nature, is likely to affect his economic
behaviour or which, for those reasons, injures or is likely to injure
a competitor's economic or business interests;
“online public communication” means any transmission of
digital data, signs, signals, texts, images, sounds or messages, of
whatever nature, that are not private correspondence, by electronic communication means that enable a reciprocal exchange of
information between an issuer and a receiver;
“opt-in” means a system where a consumer gives consent to an
electronic communication service provider to receive any other
communication;

“open standard” means any protocol for communication,
interconnection or exchange and any format of interoperable data
whose technical specifications are public and the access or use
thereto is not restricted;

“personal data” means any information relating to an
individual who__
(a) may be directly identified; or
(b) if not directly identified, may be identifiable by reference
to an identification number or one or several elements related
to his physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, cultural,
social, or economic identity;

“place of business” means a place where a person has
established, in a stable and lasting way, his activity whatever it is,
and as regards a legal person, the place where its registered office
is located or where it has its principal activity;

“pornography” means visual material that depicts images of a
person engaged in sexually suggestive or explicit conduct;

“private key” means the key of a pair of an isometric cryptal
system used to create a digital signature by a holder of the
digital signature which is exclusively known by the holder and is
not made available to anyone;

“processing of data” means any operation or set of operations
which is performed upon data, whether or not by automatic
means, such as collection, recording, organization, storage,
adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by
transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available,
alignment or combination, blocking, erasure or destruction;

No. 33

9

Electronic Transactions

“public key” means a key of a pair of an isometric cryptal
system used to verify a digital signature that the holder of a
digital signature makes available to the public or intended
recipients;
“recipient” means a person to whom a sender intends to send
an electronic communication, but does not include an intermediary for that communication;
“record” means recorded information, in any form, including
data in computer systems, created or received and maintained by
a public body in the course of official duties and kept as evidence
of such activity;
“record keeping” means making and maintaining a complete,
accurate and reliable evidence of official formalities in the form
of recorded information;
“Registrar” means an entity designated by the Authority to
manage and maintain the reservation of domain names and
domain name registry;
“registry” means a central place where domain names are kept
and maintained in an organized way;
“sender” means a person by whom, in whose name, or on
whose behalf an electronic communication is sent or created
before being stored, where necessary, but does not include an
intermediary for that communication;
“signatory” means a person who holds a digital signature
creation device and acts either on his own behalf or on behalf of
a person he represents;
“subscriber” means a person who agrees to receive or be
allowed to access electronic texts or services by subscription;
“supplier” means a person or entity that is the source for goods
or services;
“Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP)”
means a system of digital rules for data exchange within or
between computers; and
“virus” means a malicious program or script that negatively
affects the functioning of a computer by creating files, moving
files, erasing files or consuming computer memory, causing the
computer not to function properly.
3. The objectives of this Act are__
(a) to set up a responsive information and communication
technology legal framework that shall facilitate competition,
development of information and communication technology and

Objectives

10

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

the participation of Malawi in the information age and economy
and in particular__
(i) to ensure that the development, deployment and exploitation of information and communication technology within the
economy and society and related legal provisions shall balance
as well as protect community and individual interests,
including privacy and data protection issues;
(ii) to address ethical issues in the use of information and
communication technology in order to protect the rights of
children and the under-privileged;
(iii) in liaison with the Malawi Revenue Authority, to create
a legal framework for favourable tax policies that promote
information and communication technology products and
services that originate from within Malawi; and
(iv) to provide a responsive and efficient regulatory
environment, promote economic subsectors, asset accumulation and tax activities that arise from the use of information and
communication technology;

(b) to ensure that information and communication technology
users are protected from undesirable impacts of information and
communication technology, including the spread of pornographic
material, cyber-crime and digital fraud; and

Principles

(c) to put in place mechanisms that safeguard information and
communication technology users from fraud, breach of privacy,
misuse of information and immoral behaviour brought by the use
of information and communication technology.

4. The following principles shall, at all times, be adhered to in
the implementation and application of this Act__

(a) e-transactions shall benefit from a secure legal framework
that recognizes the legal value of electronic transactions and
electronic documents;

(b) freedom of communication over electronic networks shall
be promoted, with the exception of specific reasons as provided
for in this Act;

(c) there shall be clear and fair specification of responsibilities
of intermediaries and editors; and

Implementation
of this Act

(d) consumer's rights shall be respected, protected and
upheld.

5. Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the Authority shall be
responsible for the implementation of this Act.

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

PART II__ADMINISTRATION

6.__(1) There is hereby established the Malawi CERT which shall
be a unit under the Authority.
(2) The Malawi CERT shall take charge of its information
infrastructure protection actions and serve as a base for national
coordination to respond to information and communication
technology security threats.

11

Establishment
of the Malawi
CERT

(3) The Authority shall ensure that the Malawi CERT is capable
of providing reactive and proactive services, communicating timely
information on recent relevant threats and, whenever necessary,
bringing its assistance to bear for response to incidents.

(4) The Authority shall ensure that the Malawi CERT executes the
following minimum services__
(a) reactive services earl warning and precaution notice,
incidents processing, incidents analysis, incident response

facility, incidents response coordination, incident response
on the web, vulnerability treatment, vulnerability analysis,
vulnerability response and vulnerability response coordination;

(b) proactive services public notice, technological
surveillance, security audit and assessment, security
installations and mainte-nance, security tools development,
intrusion detection servicesand security information
dissemination;

(c) artefacts treatment artefacts analysis, response to
artefacts,coordination of response to artefacts, risk analysis,
continuationand resumption of activities after disaster, security
consultationand sensitization campaign, education or training
and product appraisal or certification; and

(d) do anything incidental to the functions of Malawi
CERT.

PART III__FORMATION AND VALIDITY OF ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

7.
Notwithstanding the contrary intention of any written law,
where a law requires that certain information or any other matter be
in writing, typewritten or printed form, the requirement shall be
satisfied if the information or the matter is__
(a) rendered or made available in an electronic form;
(b) accessible; and
(c) capable of being retained for a subsequent reference.

Recognition
of electronic
writing

12
Electronic
signature

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

8.__(1) Where a law requires a document to be signed, an
electronic form of the document shall satisfy the requirement if an
electronic signature is used.
(2) An electronic signature shall be authentic if__

(a) the means of creating the electronic signature is, within the
context in which it is used, linked to the signatory and not any
other person;

(b) the means of creating the electronic signature, was at the
time of signing, under the control of the signatory and not any
other person and was done without duress and undue influence;
and
(c) any alteration made to the electronic signature after signing
is detectable.
(3) Subsection(2) does not limit the right of a person__

Equal
treatment of
electronic
signature

(a) to prove the authenticity of an electronic signature in any
other lawful way; or
(b) to adduce evidence in respect of non-authenticity of an
electronic signature.

9. Except as otherwise provided for in this Act, the provisions
of this Act shall not exclude, restrict or affect the legality of any
method of creating an electronic signature which__
(a) satisfies the requirements of this Act;

(b) meets the requirements of other statutory provision; or
Conduct of
a person
relying on
a digital
signature

Bearing legal
consequences
of relying on
electronic
signature

(c) is provided for under a contract.

10. A person may sign an electronic record by affixing a
personal digital signature or using any other recognized, secure and
verifiable mode of signing agreed by parties or recognized by a
particular industry to be safe, reliable and acceptable.

11. A person who relies on a digital signature shall bear the legal
consequences of failure to__
(a) take reasonable steps to verify the authenticity of the
digital signature; or

(c) take reasonable steps where a digital signature is supported
by a certificate, to__
(i) verify the validity of the certificate; or
(ii) observe any limitation with respect to the certificate.

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

12.__(1) Unless otherwise prescribed by law, a person may
decide the use of a digital signature, digital signature certificate or
any other mode of authentication, of his choice.

(2) The Authority may, by notice published in the Gazette,
approve digital signatures, certification authorities offering digital
certificates, or authentication of a foreign information security
service provider, for use by the public.

13
Recognition
of digital
signature
certificates
and digital
signatures

(3) The Authority shall ensure that digital certificates comply
with international best practices and standards.

(4) A certification authority shall be liable for damages incurred
by any person who reasonably relied on a digital certificate issued
by the certification authority if__
(a) all or part of the information contained in the digital
certificate on the date of issuance was incorrect;
(b) all or part of the data required for the digital certificate tobe
regarded as qualified were incomplete;
(c) the digital certificate has been issued without checking that
the signatory is duly entitled to receive such digital certificate;
or
(d) the certification authority has not registered the revocation
of the digital certificate or has not made this information
available to third parties or both.

(5) A certification authority shall not be responsible for damage
caused by the use of a digital certificate that exceeds fixed limits on
the use or the value of transactions for which the digital
certificate has been used, if this condition has been made available
to the users prior to the use of the certificate.
13.__(1) Where a law requires a signature, statement or
document to be notarized, acknowledged, verified or made under
oath, that requirement shall be satisfied if the electronic signature of
the person authorized to perform those acts is affixed to an
electronic record.

(2) Where a law requires or permits a person to provide a
certified copy of a document and the document exists in paper or in
another physical form, that requirement shall be satisfied if an
electronic copy of the document is certified to be a true copy by
using an electronic signature of the certifying person.
14.__(1) A requirement in any written law for multiple copies of
a document to be submitted to a single recipient at the same time
shall be satisfied by the submission of a single electronic record of

Notarization,
acknowledgement
and
certification

Other
requirements

14

Determination
of originality
of an electronic

Admissibility
and evidential
weight of
electronic
messages

Storage of
electronic
messages

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

such document that is capable of being reproduced by the
recipient.

(2) Where a corporate seal is required to be affixed to a
document, the requirement shall be satisfied if the electronic
signature of the corporate body is affixed to the electronic record
in accordance with the provisions relating to the use of the
corporate seal.
15.__(1) Where any written law requires information to be
presented or retained in its original form, the requirement shall be
satisfied by an electronic record if__
(a) there is reliable assurance of the integrity of the
electronic record; and
(b) the electronic record is capable of being displayed to the
person to whom it is to be presented.
(2) For the purposes of this section__

(a) criteria for assessing integrity of information shall be
whether it has remained complete and unaltered, save from the
addition of any endorsement and of any change which may arise
in the normal course of communication, storage and display;
and
(b) the standard of reliability required shall be assessed in the
light of the purpose for which the information was created and
in the light of all the circumstances thereof.
16.__(1) An electronic message shall be admissible as evidence
in court proceedings as provided for in this Act.

(2) In assessing the evidential weight of an electronic message,
the court shall have regard to the following__
(a) the reliability of the manner in which the electronic record
was generated, displayed, stored or communicated;
(b) the reliability of the manner in which the integrity of the
information was maintained;
(c) the manner in which the originator of the electronic
message was identified; and
(d) any other facts that the court may consider relevant.
17.__(1) Where any written law requires that a document, record
or information shall be retained, that requirement shall be satisfied
if the document, record or information is held in electronic form,
and__
(a) is accessible;

No. 33

15

Electronic Transactions

(b) is capable of retention for subsequent reference;
(c) is retained in the format in which it was generated, sent or
received, or in a format which can be demonstrated to represent
accurately the information generated, sent or received; and
(d) is retained to enable the identification of the origin and
destination of the electronic record and the date and time when it
was sent or received.

(2) A document, record or information referred to in subsection
(1) shall be kept in electronic form for at least seven years.

(3) The obligation to retain a document, record or information
under this section shall not extend to information whose purpose is
only to enable the message to be sent or received.

(4) The provisions of this section may be satisfied by the use of
services of another party as long as all the provisions of the section
are complied with.
18.__(1) Where a security procedure has been applied to an
electronic record at a specific point in time, the record shall be a
secure electronic record from the time the security procedure has
been applied.

Secure
electronic
record

(2) An unauthorized alteration of a security procedure shall
render the record invalid.

(3) An alteration shall be unauthorized if it is done by a person
without the lawful authority of the person who originally applied a
security procedure.

19. Validity of a contract shall not be affected by the sole
reason that it is executed in electronic form, if the contract has
fulfilled all other requirements for formation of such type of
contract.
20.__(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the dispatch of
an electronic message shall occur when such message leaves an
information system under the control of the sender or an agent of the
sender.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, receipt of an
electronic message shall occur__
(a) where the recipient has designated an information system
for the purpose of receiving the electronic message, when the
electronic message has entered the designated information
system; or

Validity of a
contract
executed in
electronic
form

Time and
place of
dispatch and
receipt of an
electronic
message

16

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(b) where the recipient has not designated an information
system, when the electronic message enters an information
system through which the recipient retrieves the electronic
message.

(3) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, an electronic
message shall be dispatched at the sender's registered place of
business and shall be received at the recipient's registered place of
business.
(4) Where a sender or recipient has more than one registered
place of business, his retained place of business shall be the one
having the closest link with his underlying operation or, in the
absence of such underlying operation, with the principal place of
business.

(5) If a sender or recipient does not have a place of business, the
place of usual domicile shall be taken into consideration.

Offer and
acceptance

(6) The provisions of this section shall apply even though the
information system supporting the electronic address of the
recipient differs from the place where an electronic message is
considered to be received under this section.
21.__(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, an offer and
acceptance of the offer may be wholly or partly expressed by
electronic means.
(2) A contract concluded between parties by means of electronic
messages shall be concluded at the time when, and place where, the
acceptance of the offer was received by the recipient:

Attribution of
electronic
messages to
sender

Provided that parties may agree that the contract was concluded
at the place of residence of one party or the place of location of the
legal entity, who accepted the offer.
22.__(1) An electronic message shall be considered to be that of
the sender, if it was sent__
(a) by the sender personally;
(b) by an agent of the sender; or
(c) by an information system programmed by the sender or on
behalf of the sender to send electronic messages automatically.

(2) The recipient of an electronic message shall justifiably
consider that the electronic message came from the sender and act
accordingly if__
(a) the recipient properly applied a procedure previously
agreed with the sender for this purpose; or

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(b) the electronic messages received by the recipient results
from the actions of a person whose relationship with the sender
or with an agent of the sender, enabled the recipient to gain access
to a method used by the sender to identify an electronic message
as that of the sender.
(3) Where parties have not agreed on a procedure of ascertaining
the sender of an electronic message, the sender shall be
presumed to be the person who objectively appears to be the sender.
(4) The presumption in subsection (3) shall not apply in the
following circumstances__
(a) where a recipient of an electronic message was timely
notified by the sender that an electronic message did notemanate from the sender;
(b) where a recipient of an electronic message has
received notice from the sender that the electronic message
was issuedwithout the knowledge or consent of the sender;
(c) where a recipient of an electronic message knew or
should have reasonably known, if he had used an agreed
procedure that the electronic message did not come from the
sender, or that the person who sent the electronic message did
not have the authority of the sender to issue or send the
electronic message; or
(d) the recipient of an electronic message knew or should
have reasonably known that the electronic message resulted
from a transmission error.
(5) A recipient of an electronic message shall be entitled to
consider each electronic message received as a separate electronic
message and act accordingly, unless it duplicates another electronic
message which the recipient knew or should have known after
taking reasonable steps or complying with an agreed procedure that
the electronic message was a duplicate.
23.__(1) Where acknowledgment of an electronic message is
required, a sender of the message shall indicate this requirement to
the recipient of the message on or before sending the message.

(2) Where a sender of an electronic message has not specified a
particular form of acknowledgement, the recipient may apply one of
the following methods__
(a) any communication by automated means or any other
means, which originated from the recipient; or

(b) any act of the recipient, reasonably sufficient to notify the
sender that the electronic message was received.

17

Acknowledge
ment of
receipt of an
electronic
message

18

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(3) Where a sender of an electronic message states that an
electronic message shall be valid on receipt of acknowledgement by
the recipient, the electronic message shall not be considered as sent
until the acknowledgement is received.

(4) Where a sender of an electronic message receives a
recipient's acknowledgement of receipt of the message, it shall be
presumed that the message has reached the recipient, but this
presumption shall not mean that the electronic message
corresponds to the message received.

(5) Where a party has not indicated that the communication of the
electronic message is conditional on receipt of an electronic
message, and acknowledgement has not been received by the
recipient within the time specified or agreed, or if no time has been
specified or agreed, within a reasonable time__
(a) the sender of the electronic message may notify the
recipient that no acknowledgement has been received and
specify a reasonable time by which the acknowledgement shall be
received; and
(b) if the acknowledgement of receipt is not received within the
specified period stipulated in paragraph (a), the sender of the
electronic message may, upon notice to the recipient, treat the
electronic message as though it has never been sent, or exercise
any other right that the sender may have.

(6) Where an acknowledgement of receipt indicates that an
electronic message complies with the technical conditions,
prescribed either by an agreement or by applicable law, these
conditions shall be deemed to be fulfilled.

Freedom of
communication
and its
limitations

(7) Except insofar as it relates to the sending or receipt of an
electronic message, this section shall not affect the legal
consequences that may flow either from that message or from the
acknowledgement of its receipt.
PART IV__LIABILITY OF ONLINE INTERMEDIARIES AND CONTENT
EDITORS AND PROTECTION OF ONLINE USERS
24.__(1) Subject to this Act, there shall be no limitations to online
public communication.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), online
public communication may be restricted in order to__
(a) prohibit child pornography;
(b) prohibit incitement on racial hatred, xenophobia or
violence;

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(c) prohibit justification for crimes against humanity;
(d) promote human dignity and pluralism in the expression of
thoughts and opinions;
(e) protect public order and national security;
(f) facilitate technical restriction to conditional access to online
communication; and
(g) enhance compliance with the requirements of any other
written law.
25.__(1) An intermediary service provider shall not be liable in
any civil or criminal proceedings for any information contained in
an electronic message in respect of which he provides services, if
the intermediary service provider__
(a) has not initiated the transmission of the message;

(b) has no actual knowledge of the act or omission that gives
rise to the civil or criminal liability as the case may be, in respect
of the message; and
(c) has no knowledge of any facts or circumstances from which
the likelihood of such civil or criminal liability ought reasonably
to have been known.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed as__

(a) requiring an intermediary to monitor any information
contained in any electronic message, in order to establish
knowledge of any act, omission, fact, or circumstance giving rise
to civil or criminal liability or imputing knowledge of such
liability; or

(b) relieving an intermediary from complying with any law,
court order, ministerial direction, or contractual obligation in
respect of an electronic message.

(3) If in relation to information contained in an electronic
message in respect of which an intermediary service provider
renders his services, the intermediary service provider has__
(a) actual knowledge of the act or omission that gives rise to
civil or criminal liability, as the case may be, in respect of the
message; or
(b) knowledge of any fact or circumstance from which the
likelihood of such civil or criminal liability ought reasonably to
have been known, he shall forthwith remove the document from
any electronic communication system within his control and shall
cease to provide services in relation to the message.

19

Liability of
an
intermediary
service
provider

20

Liability for
being a conduit

Liability for
caching
services

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(4) An intermediary service provider shall not be liable for any
act done in good faith pursuant to this section.
26.__(1) An intermediary service provider shall not, when
supplying services of transmission of information, or when offering
access to online public communication, be held liable for the
information transmitted on condition that the intermediary service
provider__
(a) does not monitor the online communication;
(b) does not initiate the transmission;
(c) does not select the receiver of the transmission; or
(d) does not select or modify the information contained in the
transmission.

(2) The acts of transmission, routing and provision of access
include the automatic, intermediate and transient storage of the
information transmitted in so far as this takes place__
(a) for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission in the
information system;
(b) in a manner that makes it ordinarily inaccessible to anyone
other than an anticipated recipient; and
(c) for storage for a period not longer than is reasonably
necessary for the transmission.

27. An intermediary service provider shall not be liable for the
automatic intermediate and temporary storage of the electronic
message, where the intention of such storage is for its onward
transmission to other recipients who requested it, if the intermediary
service provider__
(a) does not modify the electronic message;
(b) complies with the conditions on access to electronic
message;
(c) complies with rules regarding updating of the electronic
message, specified in a manner widely recognized and used by
the information and communication technology industry;
(d) does not interfere with the lawful use of technology that is
widely recognized and used by the information and communication technology industry, to obtain information on the use of
electronic message;
(e) acts expeditiously to remove or to disable access to the
information it has shared upon obtaining actual knowledge of the
fact that the information at the initial source of the transmission
has been removed or access to it has been disabled or that a court

No. 33

21

Electronic Transactions

or an administrative authority has ordered such removal or
disablement; and
(f) removes or disables access to the electronic messages it has
stored upon receiving a takedown notice.

28. An intermediary service provider who provides a service
comprising storage of electronic messages shall not be liable for the
information stored if__
(a) he was not aware of the unlawful character of the stored
information; or
(b) immediately after becoming aware of the unlawful
character of the stored information, he took all necessary
measures to withdraw the information or to make access to such
information impossible; or
(c) upon receipt of the takedown notice issued under this Act,
he expeditiously removes or disables access to the information.
29.__(1) An intermediary service provider shall, while exercising
the activities prescribed in section 30, maintain and preserve the
data that permits the identification of any person who contributed to
the creation of all or part of the content relating to the services
rendered by such intermediary service provider.

Liability for
the supply of
hosting
services

Saving of
data

(2) The High Court may require from the intermediary service
provider communication of the data referred to in subsection (1).

(3) The Authority may issue regulations governing the retention
of data referred to in this section.
30.__(1) An intermediary service provider offering access to
online public communication services shall provide, and inform its
subscribers of the existence of any technical means which permit
restriction of access to certain services.

(2) An intermediary service provider shall set up an easily
accessible and visible system to enable any person inform the
intermediary service provider of any content which is unlawful or
infringes, or may infringe, on such person's rights.
(3) An intermediary service provider shall__
(a) inform promptly the Authority or its organs of any illegal
content reported as indicated in subsection (2) and made available
online by the beneficiaries of their services; and
(b) make public the means taken to fight against the
dissemination of such illegal content.

Takedown
notification

22

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(4) Any person who claims that a published electronic message is
unlawful or infringes on his right, shall notify the intermediary
service provider of such message.

(5) A notification stipulated in subsection (4) shall be in
permanent medium addressed by the complainant to the intermediary service provider, and shall include the following information__
(a) the full name and address of the complainant;
(b) the written or electronic signature of the complainant;
(c) the right that has been infringed;
(d) identification of the material or activity that is claimed to
be the subject of the infringing or unlawful activity;
(e) the remedial action required to be taken by the intermediary service provider in respect of the complaint;
(f) telephone and electronic mail contacts;
(g) a statement that the complainant is acting in good faith; and
(h) a statement by the complainant that the information is true
and correct.

(6) Any person who notifies an intermediary service provider of
an infringement or unlawful activity or content knowing that the
notification is false, commits an offence and is liable to a fine of
K1,000,000 and imprisonment for twelve months.

Online
content
providers

(7) An intermediary service provider shall not be liable for a
takedown in response to a wrongful or false notification.
31.__(1) An online content provider shall display in a conspicuous manner, the following information on its webpage__
(a) in case of a natural person, full name, domicile, telephone
number, and email address, of the editor;

(b) in case of a legal entity, corporate name, postal and
physical address of the registered office, telephone number, email
address, authorized share capital, and registration number, of the
editor;

(c) where applicable, the name of the corporate officer
appointed as director of the publication of the online public
communication and the editor in chief; and

(d) the name, title, corporate name, postal and physical address
and telephone number, email address of the intermediary service
provider prescribed in this section.

(2) A person editing online public communication on a
non-professional basis may make publicly available his name as

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

well as the name and address of the intermediary service
provider prescribed in this Act:

23

Provided that the person has duly communicated to the intermediary service provider the particulars of personal identification
prescribed by subsection (1).

(3) Any intermediary service provider identified in this section
shall be subject to professional secrecy as regards disclosure of the
particulars of personal identification or of any information sufficient
to identify the source of online content.

(4) A person may act as an editor of an online public communication, and as an intermediary service provider, if his activities fall
under both regimes.

(5) Where a person acts as an editor of an online public
communication and as an intermediary service provider as provided
in subsection (4), legal obligations of both regimes shall apply
respectively to each activity.

(6) An intermediary service provider exercising the activities
prescribed in this section shall provide to editors of online content
under this section the technical means to comply with the
requirements of identification prescribed in this section.
32.__(1) A person who can be directly or indirectly identified in
an online public communication, shall have the right to demand a
publication of his response, without prejudice to his right to request
correction or deletion of the content.
(2) A request stipulated in subsection (1) shall be addressed to the
editor in chief designated in section 31(1) (c).

(3) In the event that a person editing an online public
communication on a non-professional basis elects to remain
anonymous, the complainant shall directly address the request to the
hosting intermediary service provider.

(4) An online editor shall publish the response stipulated in
subsection (1) within twenty four hours of receipt of the request in
subsection (1).

(5) A person who contravenes subsection (4) commits an offence
and is liable to a fine of K1,000,000 and imprisonment for twelve
months.
(6) A right of reply shall be exercised free of charge.

Right of reply

24
Information to
be provided by
a supplier

Electronic Transactions

PART V__ELECTRONIC COMMERCE

No. 33

33.__(1) A supplier of goods or services through electronic
commerce (in this Act otherwise referred to as a “supplier”) shall
make available the following information to consumers__
(a) full name and legal personality;
(b) postal and physical address and telephone number;
(c) website address and e-mail address;
(d) in case of a corporate entity, its registration number, name
of its office bearers and its place of registration;
(e) if the supplier is subject to a tax on consumer goods and
services, his tax personal identification number;
(f) details of membership to any regulatory or accreditation
body to which the supplier belongs or subscribes to, and contact
information of such body;
(g) if the activity of the supplier is subject to any professional
regulation, reference to the applicable professional rules, his
professional title, the place where such title was granted, or
organization to which the person is registered;
(h) if the supplier belongs to a self-regulatory body, to a
professional association, to an organisation for dispute
settlement, or to any other relevant certification organization, the
supplier shall provide adequate information and ensure easy
means of verification of such belonging and of access to the
codes and practices applicable to that body, association or
organisation; and
(i) physical address where the supplier receives service of legal
documents.
(2) A supplier shall, before conclusion of a contract, provide to
consumers the following information regarding the terms,
conditions and costs associated with the transaction__
(a) sufficient description of goods or services subject of the
contract;
(b) instructions for use and, in particular, the warnings related
to security and health;
(c) restrictions, limitations or conditions related to the
purchase, such as an agreement of a parent or of a guardian, and
any territorial or temporal restrictions;
(d) details of full costs, including taxes and costs of shipping
and delivery to be paid by the consumer, and terms and
conditions of payment;

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(e) conditions of delivery or execution such as the time of
delivery of goods or provision of services:
Provided that__

(i) unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the supplier shall
be bound to deliver the goods or to provide the services
immediately upon conclusion of the contract; and
(ii) where the supplier fails to deliver the goods and provide
the services as stipulated in subparagraph (i), the consumer
shall be entitled to terminate the contract;
(f) mode of payment;
(g) information regarding available after-sale service;
(h) details and conditions of withdrawal, denunciation, return,
cancellation or reimbursement, in accordance with the provisions
of sections 36, 37, 38 and 39;
(i) warranty conditions;
(j) return, exchange and refund policy of the supplier;
(k) manner and the period within which the consumer can
maintain a full record of the transaction;
(l) any alternative dispute resolution code to which the
supplier subscribes and how the details and content of that code
may be accessed electronically by the consumer; and
(m) security procedures and privacy policy of the supplier in
respect of payment, payment information and personal information of the consumer.
34.__(1) Avery contract with a value exceeding K5,000,000.00,
or a value as will be prescribed by the Minister by notice published
in the Gazette, concluded by electronic means shall be achieved by
the supplier for a period of not less than seven years from the date
when the contract was formed.

(2) A supplier shall ensure that the terms and conditions referred
to in subsection (1)__
(a) specify the time and manner the contract is formed; and
(b) are in a form that guarantees their preservation and
production.
(3) A supplier shall__
(a) provide the technical means which permit the consumer to
review the transaction and correct any errors made;
(b) indicate the languages in which the contract shall be
formed;

25

Formation of
electronic
contracts
with
consumers

26

Cooling-off
period

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(c) in case the contract is archived, provide the conditions of
such archiving by the supplier and the conditions of access to the
archived contract; and
(d) if applicable, provide the way to access, through electronic
means, professional and commercial rules that the supplier
considers binding.
(4) Every contract with a value exceeding K5,000,000 concluded
by electronic means shall be archived by the supplier for a
period of not less than seven years from the date when the contract
was formed.
35.__(1) A consumer shall be entitled to exercise the right of
withdrawal from a contract concluded by electronic means without
giving reasons and without penalties__
(a) with respect to goods, within seven days of receipt of the
goods or a period as agreed by the two parties in the agreement;
(b) with respect to services, within seven days of the formation
of the contract or a period as agreed by the two parties in the
agreement.
(2) Where consumer has cancelled a contract under this
section, the consumer may, if necessary, bear return costs for the
goods supplied or services rendered.
(3) After a consumer has cancelled a contract under this
section, a supplier shall, within fourteen days of cancellation of the
contract by the consumer, reimburse to the consumer all sums paid.
(4) After expiry of the period specified in subsection (3), the sum
due shall attract interest at the prevailing bank rate as specified by
the Reserve Bank of Malawi.
(5) A supplier shall reimburse to a consumer, all sums due, in a
payment mode agreed by the parties:
Provided that in the event that the parties fail to agree on the
mode, the reimbursement shall be made in the same mode in which
the consumer paid the supplier.
(6) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a consumer shall not
withdraw from a contract concluded by electronic means where__
(a) the provision of services started with the consumer's
consent, before the end of the seven day period;
(b) the price of the goods or services depends on the
fluctuations of financial market rates and the price is not in the
control of the supplier;
(c) the provision of goods was made according to the
consumer’s own specifications or clearly personalized, or goods
which by their nature cannot be returned or are liable to
deteriorate rapidly;

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(d) the contract relates to the provision of audio or video
recording or software;

27

(e) the contract relates to the provision of newspapers,
periodicals or magazines; and

(f) the contract relates to the provision of betting and
authorized lotteries.
36.__(1) A supplier shall put technical measures on his
electronic platform that will enable a consumer to verify the
accuracy of the details of an order, failing which an electronic
transaction made on the platform shall be invalid.

(2) A supplier shall acknowledge receipt of the order
electronically within forty eight hours of receipt of the order.

Performance
of an
electronic
transaction

(3) Unless the parties agree otherwise, a supplier shall execute the
order within thirty days of receipt of the order.

(4) Where a supplier has failed to execute an order within the
thirty days or within the agreed period, the consumer may, after the
expiration of that period, cancel the contract upon giving a seven
days’ written notice.
(5) The order, the acceptance of the order, and the acknowledgement of receipt of such acceptance of the order, shall be considered
received in accordance with section 20.

(6) For the purposes of this section, an “order” shall amount to an
“offer”.
37.__(1) Where a supplier fails to perform his part of the contract,
the supplier shall inform the consumer of the failure and the
supplier shall refund the consumer any sums paid within seven days
of notifying the consumer of his failure or at the expiry of the
thirty days or at the expiry of the period agreed by the parties,
whichever comes first.

Default in
contract
performance

(2) Where a supplier fails to refund a consumer as required by
subsection (1), interest shall accrue on the sum at the applicable
bank rate as specified by the Reserve Bank of Malawi.

(3) Where a consumer is contractually required to bear costs of
returning goods that the supplier has delivered to a consumer, the
supplier shall inform the consumer of this fact in advance.
38.__(1) A supplier shall provide to a consumer with an
opportunity to do the following__

Review and
cancellation
of contract by
a consumer

28

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(a) review the entire electronic transaction;
(b) correct any errors; and
(c) withdraw from the transaction before finally placing an
order.

(2) Where a supplier's transaction fails to comply with subsection
(1), a consumer is entitled to cancel the transaction within fourteen
days after receiving the goods, services or facilities to which the
transaction applies.
(3) Where a transaction is cancelled under subsection (2)__

(a) a consumer shall return the goods and cease using the
services or facilities supplied pursuant to the transaction, as the
case may require; and
(b) a supplier shall refund all payments made by the consumer
in respect of the transaction.

(4) A supplier shall utilize a payment system that is sufficiently
secure having regard to__
(a) accepted technological standards at the time of the
transaction; and
(b) the type of transaction concerned.

Cancellation of
payment

Prohibition of
misleading
advertising

(5) A supplier shall be liable for any damage suffered by a
consumer due to a failure by the supplier to comply with subsection
(4).

39. A consumer may require the cancellation of a payment in
case of fraudulent use of his payment for the purposes of execution
of a contract by electronic means, and in such a case the sums paid
shall be reimbursed to the consumer.
40.__(1) A person dealing on online communication shall not
advertise in a misleading manner.
(2) In determining whether online advertising is misleading,
account shall be taken of all its features, and in particular, of any
information it contains concerning__
(a) the characteristics of goods or services, such as their
availability, nature, execution, composition, method and date of
manufacture or provision, fitness for purpose, uses, quantity,
specification, geographical or commercial origin, the results to be
expected from their use, or the results and material features of
tests or checks carried out on the goods or services;
(b) the price or the manner in which the price is calculated, and
the conditions on which the goods are supplied or the services
provided; and

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(c) the nature, attributes and rights of the advertiser, such as its
identity, assets, qualifications, ownership of industrial, commercial or intellectual property rights or its awards and distinctions.

29

(3) Comparative advertising shall, as far as the comparison is
concerned, be permitted if the advertising__

(a) is not misleading within the meaning of subsections(1) and
(2);

(b) compares goods or services meeting the same needs or
intended for the same purpose;
(c) objectively compares one or more material, relevant,
verifiable and representative features of those goods and
services, which may include price;

(d) does not discredit or denigrate the trade marks, trade
names, other distinguishing marks, goods, services, activities or
circumstances of a competitor;

(e) for products with designation of origin, relates in each case
to products with the same designation;

(f) does not take unfair advantage of the reputation of a trade
mark, trade name or other distinguishing marks of a competitor or
of the designation of origin of competing products;

(g) does not present goods or services as imitations or replicas
of goods or services bearing a protected trade mark or trade
name; and

(h) does not create confusion among traders, between the
advertiser and a competitor or between the advertiser's
trademarks, trade names, other distinguishing marks, goods or
services and those of a competitor.
41.__(1) Subject to the Consumer Protection Act and any other
written law, any advertisement made by electronic means shall be
clearly identifiable as such and the natural or legal person for whom
the advertisement is placed shall be clearly identifiable.

(2) The terms and conditions for benefiting from promotional
offers and for participating in sweepstakes, lotteries or in other
promotional games shall be clearly and precisely indicated and
easily accessible.
42.__(1) Except in the case of a notice sent by an electronic
communications provider to a customer in relation to services, a
person shall not send unsolicited electronic communications to a
consumer without obtaining the prior consent of the consumer.

Identification
of
advertisement
content
Cap. 48:10

Unsolicited
communications

30

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(2) A person who sends electronic commercial communication to
a consumer shall provide the consumer__

(a) with an option to unsubscribe from the mailing list of that
person; and
(b) at the request of the consumer, the identifying particulars of
the source from which that person obtained the consumer's
personal information.

(3) A recipient shall have the opportunity to object, free of charge,
to the use of his personal data for prospection purposes by a data
controller.
(4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence
and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and
imprisonment for five years.

(5) A person who sends unsolicited commercial communications
to another person or who continues to send unsolicited commercial
communications to a person after unsubscribing in accordance
with subsection (2)(a) commits an offence and shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine of K1,000,000 and imprisonment for
twelve months.
(6) The provisions of subsection (1) and (2) shall not apply
where__

(a) the sender of the electronic message has obtained the
personal data of the recipient in the course of negotiations for the
sale of the product or the provision of the service referred to in
the electronic message; or

Scope of
application
of financial
provisions
No.15 of 2016

(b) the commercial solicitation is directly linked to the product
or the service.
43.__(1) Subject to the Payment Systems Act, 2016, and any
financial services law, the provisions of this Part shall apply to any
supply of electronic financial services without prejudice to
application of__
(a) specific legal and regulatory obligations applicable to
certain financial products, instruments or services; and

(b) other provisions applicable to contracts concluded between
natural persons or a supplier and a consumer.

(2) The Minister of Finance, on recommendation from the
Authority and the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Malawi, shall
make regulations defining specific obligations with regards to
online banking.

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

44.__(1) Before a conclusion of a distance contract or acceptance
of an offer, a consumer shall receive from the supplier the information indicated in section 33, and where applicable__
(a) when the supplier uses the services of a representative, the
supplier shall communicate to the consumer the identity of the
representative and his address and the following information__
(i) the fact that financial services are linked to instruments
involving special risks related to their specific features or the
operations to be executed or the fact that their price depends on
fluctuations in the financial markets outside the supplier's
control;
(ii) the fact that past performances do not allow to predict
future performances; and
(iii) any limitation of the term during which the information
provided is valid, the conditions of payment and execution and,
if necessary, the existence of any specific additional costs for
the consumer arising out of the use of electronic communication;
(b) where necessary, the existence of a right of withdrawal as
prescribed by section 35, its duration, the possible pecuniary
consequences of its exercise, as well as the address to be used by
the consumer to notify the supplier of his decision;
(c) in a case where the right of withdrawal is not exercisable,
the supplier shall inform the consumer about that and the
consequences.

31
Identity of a
provider of
financial or
banking
services

(2) For a contract with a withdrawal period, the supplier shall
inform the consumer that without his express consent, the
contract may not be executed before expiry of the withdrawal
period.

(3) The terms and conditions of the contract and in particular the
information indicated in subsections (1) and (2) shall be__
(a) provided in a clear and comprehensible manner and in any
way appropriate to the means of electronic communication used;
(b) communicated to a consumer in writing prior to the
conclusion of the contract; and
(c) communicated to a consumer in writing upon the
consumer's request at any time during the contractual relations.
45.__(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 35, a
consumer entering into a distant contract for the provision of
financial services shall have twenty calendar days unless otherwise
agreed by the parties, within which he may exercise his right to

Right of
withdrawal
from a
contract

32

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

withdraw from the contract without penalty and without giving
reasons.

(2) The period referred to in subsection (1) shall be extended to
forty five calendar days for distance contracts relating to life
insurance and retirement.

(3) The term during which the right of withdrawal may be
exercised starts__

(a) either from the day when the distance contract was
concluded, except the case of the life insurance with respect to
which the term of withdrawal starts from the date when the
consumer became aware of the conclusion of a distance contract;
or

(b) from the day when the consumer received the terms and
conditions of the contract, if the period is later than the period
prescribed under subsection (1).
(4) The right of withdrawal shall not apply__

(a) to financial services having prices dependent on
fluctuations of the financial market on which the supplier has no
influence and which are susceptible to occur during the
withdrawal period;
(b) to insurance of travel or luggage, or similar types of
short-term insurance not exceeding one month; and
(c) to contracts__
(i) executed exclusively by the supplier and the consumer;
(ii) executed upon the express request of the consumer; and
(iii) where the consumer has not yet exercised the right of
withdrawal.
(d) to online auctions;
(e) to supply of food stuffs, beverages and other goods
intended for daily consumption;
(f) where audio or video recordings or computer software were
downloaded, or unsealed by the consumer;
(g) to sell of newspapers, periodicals, magazines and books;
(h) to the provision of gaming and rotary services;
(i) to online gambling;
(j) to the provision of accommodation, transport and catering
services; and
(k) to start up transactions as the Minister may by Notice
published in the Gazette prescribe.

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(5) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where a consumer
exercises the right of withdrawal, he may only be required to pay,
within seven days, for the financial services already provided by a
supplier pursuant to the distant contract and the execution of a
contract may only start upon consent of the consumer, and the
amount due__
(a) has not exceeded the amount proportionate to the service
already rendered as compared to the services to be rendered under
the contract; and
(b) is not, under any circumstances, of such value or nature as
to constitute a penalty.

33

(6) A supplier may not require a consumer to pay an amount due
under subsection (5) unless the supplier proves that the consumer
was duly notified of the amount.

(7) Where a supplier has started to execute a contract before
expiry of the term of withdrawal, the supplier may not, under any
circumstances, require the consumer to process the payment.

(8) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a supplier shall be
required to reimburse to a consumer, not later than fourteen days, all
sums which were paid by the consumer under a distant contract.

(9) The fourteen day period referred to in subsection (8) shall
commence once a supplier receives a notification of a decision by a
consumer to withdraw from the contract.

(10) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where a supplier fails
to reimburse to a consumer the sums due within the period of
fourteen days, the amount shall attract interest at the prevailing bank
rate as specified by the Reserve Bank of Malawi.

(11) A consumer shall return to the supplier not later than
fourteen days or such period as agreed by the parties and the
calculation of time under this section shall start from when the
goods received from the supplier and the fourteen day period shall
start from the day when the consumer has sent a notification of
withdrawal to the supplier.
PART VI__SECURITY AND DIGITAL ECONOMY
46.__(1) Where any portion of an electronic message is signed
with a digital signature, the digital signature shall be treated as a
secure electronic signature with respect to such portion of the
message if__
(a) the digital signature was created during the operational
period of a valid digital signatures certificate and is verified by
reference to the public key listed in such certificate;

Use, supply,
transfer, etc

34

Presumptions
regarding
digital
signature
certificates

Unreliable
digital
signatures

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(b) the public key of the signatory has the same identity as the
certificate based on the fact that__
(i) the digital signature certificate was issued by a competent
licensed certification authority;
(ii) the digital signature certificate was issued by a certification authority outside Malawi recognized for this purpose by
the Authority;
(iii) the digital signature certificate was issued by an organ
licensed by the Authority to act as a certification authority in
accordance with this Act ; and
(iv) the sender and the recipient have expressly agreed
between themselves to use digital signatures as a security
procedure, and the digital signature was properly verified by
reference to the sender's public key.

47. Except for information identified as subscriber information
which has not been verified, any other information included in a
digital signature certificate issued by a licensed certification
authority shall be deemed correct if the subscriber accepted the
digital signature certificate, unless evidence to the contrary is
adduced.
48.__(1) Unless otherwise provided for by any written law or
contract, a person relying on a digitally signed electronic message
shall bear the risk that the digital signature is invalid as a signature
or authentication of the signed electronic message, if reliance on the
digital signature is not reasonable under the circumstances having
regard to the following factors__
(a) acts which the person relying on the digitally signed
electronic message knows or has notice of, including all facts
listed in the digital signature certificate or incorporated in it by
reference;

(b) the value or importance of the digital signed electronic
message, if known;

(c) the course of dealing between the person relying on the
digital signed electronic message and the subscriber and any
available indication of reliability or unreliability apart from the
digital signature; and

Reliance on
digital
signature and
certificate

(d) any usage of trade, particularly trade conducted by
trustworthy systems or other electronic means.

49. A person who relies on a digital signature shall be deemed
to have relied on a valid certificate containing the public key by
which the digital signature may be verified.

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

50. A digital signature certificate may be published where__
(a) it has been issued by a competent authority;
(b) the subscriber mentioned on that digital signature
certificate has accepted it; and
(c) the digital signature certificate has not been revoked or
suspended.
51.__(1) The Authority shall accredit certification authorities.

(2) the Minister shall, from time to time issue certification
authorities accreditation regulations in consultation with the
Authority which may include__
(a) application procedures accreditation;
(b) applicable fees.
(c) terms and conditions for accreditation;
(d) standards to be maintained by accreditation authorities;
(e) any other terms deemed necessary.
(3) The authority shall__

(a) keep and maintain a register of certification authorities;
and
(b) do such things as necessary for the implementation of this
Act.
52.__(1) Aperson shall not provide cryptograph services or
products in Malawi without registration under this Part.
(2) Registration for provision of cryptograph services or products
shall be made__
(a) to the Authority;
(b) in the prescribed manner and form; and
(c) upon payment of applicable fees.

(3) The Minister in consultation with the Authority shall issue
regulations__
(a) in respect of use, importation and exportation of encryption
programmes and encryption products; and
(b) prohibiting the exportation of encryption programmes or
other encryption products from Malawi generally or subject to
such restrictions as may be prescribed.

(4) For the avoidance of doubt, subject to any regulations made
under subregulation (1), it is lawful for any person to use
encryption programme or product provided that it has lawfully
come into possession of that person.

35
Requirements
to publish
digital
signature
certificate

Authority to
appoint a
certification
authority

Encryption

36
Trustworthy
system

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

53.__(1) A certification authority shall utilize a trustworthy
system in performing its services.

(2) the registration for the provision of cryptalgraphic services or
products shall be made__
(a) to the Authority;
(b) in the prescribed manner and form; and
(c) upon payment of prescribed fees.

(3) the minister in consultation with the Authority shall issue
regulations__
(a) in respect of use, importation and exportation of inscription
programmes and products; and
(b) prohibiting the exportation of inscription programmes or
other inscription products from Malawi generally, or subject to
such restrictions, as may be prescribed.

Disclosure

Issuance of a
digital
signature
certificate

(4) For the avoidance of doubt, subject to any regulations made
under subregulation (1), it is lawful for any person to use encryption
programme or product provided that it has lawfully come into
possession of that person.
54.__(1) A certification authority shall disclose__

(a) its digital signature certificate that contains the public key
corresponding to the private key used by that certification
authority to digitally sign another digital signature certificate;
(b) any relevant certification practice statement;
(c) notice of the revocation or suspension of its certification
authority certificate; and
(d) any other fact that materially and adversely affects either
the reliability of a digital signature certificate that the authority
has issued or the authority's ability to perform its services.

(2) In case of an occurrence that materially and adversely affects
a certification authority trustworthy system or its certification, the
certification authority shall__
(a) use reasonable efforts to notify any person who is known to
be foreseeably affected by that occurrence; and
(b) act in accordance with procedures governing such an
occurrence specified in its certification practice statement.
55.__(1) A certification authority may issue a certificate to a
prospective subscriber only after__
(a) it has received a request from the prospective subscriber;
and

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(b) the prospective subscriber has a certification practice
statement in compliance with the content of such statement
including procedures regarding identification of the prospective
subscriber.
(2) In the absence of a certification practice statement, the
certification authority shall confirm by itself or through an
authorized agent that__
(a) the prospective subscriber is the person to be listed in the
digital signature certificate to be issued;
(b) if the prospective subscriber is acting through one or more
agents, the subscriber authorized the agent to have custody of the
subscriber's private key and to request issuance of a digital
signature certificate listing the corresponding public key;
(c) the information in the digital signature certificate to be
issued is accurate;
(d) the prospective subscriber rightfully holds the private key
corresponding to the public key to be listed in the digital
signature certificate;
(e) the prospective subscriber holds a private key capable of
creating a digital signature; and
(f) the public key indicated in the digital signature certificate is
capable of verifying a digital signature affixed by the public key.
56.__(1) By issuing a digital signature certificate, a certification
authority represents any person who relies on the digital signature
certificate or a digital signature verifiable by the public key
indicated in the certificate in accordance with any applicable
certification practice statement.
(2) In the absence of such certification practice statement, the
representing certification authority confirms that__
(a) the certification authority has complied with all applicable
requirements of this Act in issuing the digital signature
certificate, but where the certification authority has published or
submitted it to such relying person, it shall confirm that the
subscriber listed in the digital signature has accepted it;
(b) the subscriber identified in the certificate holds the private
key corresponding to the public key listed in the digital signature
certificate;
(c) the subscriber's public key and private key constitute a
functioning key pair;
(d) all information in the digital signature certificate is
accurate, unless the certification authority has stated in the
digital signature certificate or incorporated by reference in the

37

Representations upon
issuance of a
digital
ignature
certificate

38

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

certificate a statement that the accuracy of specified information
is not confirmed; and
(e) the certification authority has no knowledge of any
material fact which if it had been included in the digital signature
certificate would adversely affect the reliability of the representations above mentioned.
Suspension of a
57. A certification authority that issued a digital signature
digital
certificate
shall suspend the certificate after receiving a request
signature
__
by
certificate
(a) a subscriber listed in the digital signature certificate; or
(b) a person acting on behalf of a subscriber, where the
subscriber is not available.
58. A certification authority shall revoke a digital signature
Revocation of
digital
certificate that it issued__
signature
(a) upon request by the subscriber or his representative;
certificate
(b) upon receipt of a certified copy confirming that the
subscriber is dead;
(c) upon presentation of documents effecting a dissolution of
the subscriber; or
(d) upon confirming by other evidence that the subscriber has
been dissolved or has ceased to exist.
Revocation
59. A certification authority shall revoke a digital signature
without a
certificate,
regardless of whether the subscriber listed in the
subscriber's
certificate
consents,
if the certification authority confirms that__
consente
(a) a material fact represented in the digital signature
certificate is false;
(b) a requirement for issuance of the digital signature was not
satisfied;
(c) the certification authority's private key or trustworthy
system was compromised in a manner materially affecting the
digital signature certificate's reliability; or
(d) a subscriber has ceased his activities.
60.__(1) Immediately upon suspension of a digital signature
Notice of
suspension
certificate by a certification authority, the certification authority
of digital
shall
publish a signed notice of the suspension.
signature
certificate
(2) A certification authority shall keep and maintain a register
containing notices of suspended digital signature certificates, which
registers shall be open for inspection by the public.
Notification
61.__(1) Immediately upon revocation of a digital signature
of revocation certificate by a certification authority, the certification authority
of a digital
shall publish a signed notice of the revocation.
signature
certificate

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(2) A certification authority shall keep and maintain a register
containing notices of revoked digital signature certificates which
shall be open for inspection by the public.
62.__(1) If a subscriber generates a key pair whose public key is
to be listed in a digital signature certificate issued by a certification
authority and accepted by the subscriber, the subscriber shall
generate the key pair using a trustworthy system.
(2) This section shall not apply to a subscriber who generates a
key pair using a system approved by a certification authority.
63. A subscriber shall not make material representations to a
certification authority for purposes of obtaining a digital signature
certificate, including all information known to the subscriber and
represented in the certificate, unless the representations are accurate
and complete.
64.__(1) A subscriber shall be deemed to have accepted a digital
signature certificate if he publishes in writing or authorizes the
publication of a digital signature certificate__
(a) to one or more persons;
(b) in a register; or
(d) where another digital signature certificate is produced
orproved by written evidence.
(2) By accepting a digital signature certificate issued by a
subscriber or a certification authority, the subscriber listed in the
certificate certifies to all who reasonably rely on the information
contained in the certificate that__
(a) the subscriber rightfully holds the private key
correspon-ding to the public key listed in the digital signature
certificate; and
(b) all representations made by the subscriber to the
certifica-tion authority and material to the information listed in
the digital signature certificate are true.
65.__(1) By accepting a digital signature certificate issued by a
certification authority, the subscriber identified in the certificate
shall assume a duty to exercise reasonable care to retain control of
the private key corresponding to the public key listed in such
digital signature certificate and shall prevent its disclosure to a
person not authorized to create the subscriber's digital signature.
(2) The duty referred to in subsection (1) shall continue during the
operational period of the digital signature certificate and during any
period of suspension of the certificate.
66. A subscriber who has accepted a digital signature certificate
shall, as soon as possible, request the issuing certification authority

39

Generating a
key pairs

Accurate and
complete
representations
Acceptance
of digital
signature
certificate

Control of a
private key

Requesting for
suspension or
revocation

40

Provision of
encryption
services

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

to suspend or revoke the certificate if the private key corresponding
to the public key listed in the certificate has been compromised.
67.__(1) A person who provides encryption services shall declare
to the Authority the technical characteristics of the encryption
means as well as the source code of the software used.

(2) Regulations made under this Act shall define the conditions
for making declarations referred to in subsection (1), and may
define encryption services whose technical characteristics or
conditions of supply are such that, with regard to national defence
or internal security interests, their provision shall not require any
prior formality.
(3) An encryption services provider shall be bound by professional secrecy.

Administrative
sanctions

Appointment
of cyber
inspectors

(4) Unless it is proved that no intentional wrongful conduct or
negligence was involved, a provider of encryption services for
confidentiality purposes shall be liable, notwithstanding any
contractual provision to the contrary, for the damage suffered by the
persons that entrusted the management of their confidential
conventions to them in case of violation of the integrity, confidentiality or availability of the data object of such convention.
68.__(1) Without prejudice to applicable criminal sanctions,
where a supplier of encryption, including free of charge encryption,
does not comply with its obligations under this Act, the Authority
may, after having given the supplier the opportunity to give its
observations, prohibit the distribution of the concerned encryption.

(2) The prohibition of distribution shall entail an obligation for
the supplier to withdraw__
(a) from distribution networks, the prohibited encryption; and
(b) materials constituting encryption whose distribution has
been prohibited and that have been acquired against payment
directly or through distribution networks.
69.__(1) The Authority shall appoint any person as a cyber
inspector to perform the functions provided for in this Part for a
term of two years, renewable for another term of two years.

(2) A person may be appointed as a cyber inspector if that
person__
(a) is a citizen and a resident of Malawi;
(b) possesses qualifications, expertise and experience in any
fields of communications technology, law, economics or finance;
and
(c) is an individual who is committed to fairness, openness,

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

accountability and to principles by which the Authority is guided.

41

(3) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed as a cyber
inspector if he__
(a) is a Member of Parliament;
(b) is a Minister or Deputy Minister; or
(c) is a member of a committee of a political party.

(4) The Authority shall provide any person appointed as a cyber
inspector with a certificate of appointment.

(5) The certificate of appointment referred to in subsection (4)
may be accompanied by a digital signature of the Authority.

(6) A cyber inspector shall, in performing any function under this
Act__
(a) be in possession of the certificate of appointment referred
to in subsection (4); and
(b) upon request by a person who is subject to investigations
or an employee of that person, show the certificate of appointment to that person.
70.__(1) A cyber inspector shall have the following powers and
functions__

(a) to monitor and inspect any website database with critical
data or activity on an information system in the public domain
and report any unlawful activity to the Authority;

(b) in respect of suppliers of encryption and encryption service
providers__
(i) to investigate the activities of suppliers of encryption and
of encryption service providers in relation to compliance with
this Act; and

(ii) to issue orders in writing to suppliers of encryption and
encryption service providers to comply with the provisions of
this Act;

(c) in the performance of his functions, at any reasonable time,
without prior notice, and under the authority of a search warrant
issued by a court, to enter any premises or access any information
system and__
(i) search the premises or the information system;

(ii) search any person on the premises if there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the person has possession of a
document, record or any element that is connected to an
investigation;

Powers and
functions of
a cyber
inspector

42

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(iii) take extracts from, or make copies of, any book,
document, record or any element that is in the premises or in
the information system and has a bearing on an investigation;
(iv) demand the production of, and inspect, relevant
authorizations, declarations and certificates;
(v) inspect any facilities on the premises, which are linked or
associated with the information system;
(vi) access and inspect the operation of any computer or
equipment forming part of an information system and any
associated apparatus or material which the cyber inspector has
reasonable cause to believe is, or has been used in, connection
with the commission of any offence;
(vii) use or cause to be used any information system or part
thereof to search any data contained in or available to such
information system;
(viii) require the person by whom, or on whose behalf, the
cyber inspector has reasonable cause to suspect the computer
or information system is or has been used, or require any
person in control of, or otherwise involved with the operation
of the computer or information system, to provide the cyber
inspector with such reasonable technical and other assistance
as the cyber inspector may require for the purposes of this part;
or
(ix) make such inquiries as may be necessary to ascertain
whether the provisions of this Act or any other written law on
which an investigation is based, have been complied with.
(2) A person who__
(a) hinders or obstructs a cyber inspector in the performance of
his powers and functions under this Part;
(b) refuses to co-operate with a cyber inspector; or
(c) falsely holds himself out as a cyber inspector,

commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine
of K5,000,000 and imprisonment for seven years.

Processing of
personal data

(3) For the proper performance of his functions under this Act, a
cyber inspector maybe accompanied by a police officer.
PART VII__DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
__
71. (1) A data controller shall ensure that personal data is__
(a) processed fairly and legally;
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and
not further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes;
(c) adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are collected and processed;

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date;
(e) every reasonable step shall be taken to ensure that data
which is inaccurate or incomplete, having regard to the purposes
for which they were collected or for which they are further
processed, is erased or rectified; and
(f) kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data
was collected or for which it is further processed.
(2) Personal data may be processed only if__

43

(a) the data subject has unambiguously given his consent;
(b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a
contract to which a data subject is party or in order to take steps
at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
(c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal
obligation to which a data controller is subject;
(d) the processing is necessary in order to protect the vital
interests of a data subject;
(e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official
authority vested in a data controller or in a third party to whom
the data is disclosed; or
(f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the
legitimate interests pursued by a data controller or by the third
party or parties to whom the data is disclosed, except where such
interests are overridden by the interests for fundamental rights
and freedoms of the data subject.

(3) For purposes of this section, “consent” means any freely given
specific and informed indication by a data subject, of his wishes, by
agreement, to his personal data being collected, processed or stored.
72.__(1) A data subject shall be entitled to obtain from a data
controller, without constraint or unreasonable delay and at no
expense__
(a) confirmation as to whether or not the data relating to him is
being processed;
(b) communication to him of the data undergoing processing
and of their source; and
(c) communication for the purposes of the processing and the
recipients to whom the data is disclosed.

(2) A data subject shall be entitled to object at any time on
legitimate grounds relating to his situation to the processing of data

Rights of a
data subject

44

Accuracy and
completeness
of information

Security
obligations

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

relating to him and where there is a justifiable objection, the
processing instigated by the data controller may no longer involve
such data.

(3) A data subject shall be entitled to obtain from a data
controller, as appropriate, the rectification, erasure or blocking of
data the processing of which does not comply with the provisions of
this Act, in particular because of the incomplete or inaccurate nature
of the data.
73.__A data controller shall provide a data subject from whom
data relating to himself is collected with at least the following
information__
(a) the identity of the data controller and of his representative,
if any;
(b) the purposes of the processing for which the data is
intended;
(c) the existence of the right of access to and the right to
rectify the data concerning him; and
(d) the existence of the right to object to the processing of the
data concerning him.
74.__(1) A data controller shall implement technical and
organizational measures enabling to protect personal data against
accidental or unlawful destruction or accidental loss, alteration,
unauthorized disclosure or access, in particular where the
processing involves the transmission of data over a network, and
against all other unlawful forms of processing.

(2) Having regard to the state of the art and the cost of their
implementation, such measures shall ensure a level of security
appropriate to the risks represented by the processing and the nature
of the data to be protected.
Appointment
of the Registrar
of domain
names

Functions
and powers of
the Registrar

PART VIII__DOMAIN NAME AND MANAGEMENT

75.__(1) The Authority shall appoint a Registrar who shall
administer and manage the “.mw” domain name space and any other
Malawian names to be used for domain names (in this Act,
otherwise referred to as the “Registrar”).

(2) A person holding the office of the Registrar shall hold the
office for such duration as the Authority, in its discretion, may
determine.
76.__(1) Without prejudice to generality of section 75, a person
holding the office of the Registrar shall perform the following
functions__

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(a) ensuring compliance by users with international best
practices in the administration of the “.mw” domain name space
and any other Malawian names to be used for domain names; and
(b) publishing guidelines on__
(i) the general administration and management of the “.mw”
domain name space and any other Malawian names to be used
for the domain names;
(ii) the requirements and procedures for domain name
registration; and
(iii) the maintenance of, and public access to, a registry.

45

(2) The Registrar shall enhance public awareness on the
economic and commercial benefits of domain name registration.
(3) The Registrar, in relation to domain name regulation__

(a) may conduct such investigations as he may consider
necessary;
(b) shall conduct research into, and keep abreast of, developments in Malawi and elsewhere on the domain name system and
identifiers;
(c) shall continually survey and evaluate the extent to which
the “.mw” domain-name space and any other Malawian names to
be used for domain names meet the needs of the citizens of
Malawi; and
(d) may issue information on the registration of domain names
in Malawi.
(4) The Registrar may__

(a) liaise, consult and co-operate with any person or other
authorities in various fields which he deems fit for the purpose of
implementing this Act; and
(b) appoint experts and other consultants on such conditions as
the Authority may determine.
77.__(1) The Authority may make recommendations to the
Minister in relation to policy on any matter relating to the “.mw”
domain name space and any other Malawian names to be used for
domain names.

(2) The Authority shall continually evaluate the effectiveness of
this Act and the management of the “.mw” domain name space and
any other Malawian names to be used for domain names.

(3) The Authority shall, in relation to the “mw” domain name
space and any other Malawian names to be used for domain names
existing prior to the coming into force of this Act, uphold the

Recommendations
relating to
domain
names

46

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

vested rights and interests of any party involved in the
management and administration of the “.mw” domain name space
and any other Malawian names to be used for domain names at the
date of its establishment:
Provided that__

(a) such party shall be granted a period of six months during
which they may continue to operate in respect of their existing
delegated sub-domains; and
(b) the Authority may, among other persons, consider the
existing registrars for appointment to the post of registrar after the
expiry of the six months.

78. A person who administers, manages or operates second
Offence of
administering level domain name without authority commits an offence and shall,
domain name
without authori- upon conviction, be liable to a fine of K5,000,000 and to imprisonment for seven years.
ty
Dispute
resolution
concerning
domain names
Cap. 6:03
Requirement
of electronic
filing and
issuing of
documents

79. Any unresolved dispute under this Part shall be submitted
to arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration Act.

PART IX__ELECTRONIC-GOVERNMENT TRANSACTIONS
80.__(1) A public body shall take steps including entering into an
arrangement to ensure that its functions are carried out, delivered or
accessed electronically or online in full compliance with internationally recognized best practices.

(2) The Department of E-government shall assist and supervise
public bodies in the establishment and delivery of e-government
services.
(3) Where a law provides that a public body may__
(a) accept the filing of a document or requires that a document
be created or retained;
(b) issue a permit, licence or an approval; or
(c) provide for the making of a payment, the public body
may__
(i) accept the document to be filed, created or retained in the
form of an electronic message;
(ii) issue the permit, licence or approval in an electronic
form; or
(iii) make or receive payment by electronic means.

(4) A public body shall treat as official records, electronic records
generated or received by a public body in the course of official
duties.

No. 33

47

Electronic Transactions

(5) A public body shall maintain electronic records in a reliable
record keeping system as defined in regulations made under this
Act.

81. The Department of E-government shall, for the purposes of
section 80, from time to time, publish guidelines specifying__
(a) the manner and format in which the electronic message
shall be filed, created or retained;
(b) the manner and format in which the permit, licence or
approval shall be issued;
(c) where the electronic message has to be signed, the type of
digital signature required;
(d) the manner and format in which the digital signature shall
be attached to or incorporated into the electronic message;
(e) the appropriate control process and the procedure to ensure
adequate integrity, security and confidentiality of an electronic
messages or a payment; and
(f) any other requirements in respect of the electronic message
or payment.

82. The application of the provisions of this Part shall be
subject to the adoption of necessary regulations made by the
Minister, which shall establish__
(a) the legal framework to ensure security, storage, confidentiality and integrity of acts and exchanges done by electronic
means; and
(b) the legal framework to ensure confidentiality of personal
data and guaranteeing inviolability of private life.
PART X__OFFENCES

83.__(1) A court may, on application by a cyber inspector, issue a
search warrant.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a court may issue a warrant
where__
(a) an offence has been committed in Malawi; or
(b) the subject of an investigation is__
(i) a Malawian or a person ordinarily resident in Malawi;
(ii) present in Malawi at the time when the warrant is applied
for; or
(iii) information relevant to an investigation is accessible
from within the area of jurisdiction of the court.

Specific
guidelines to
public bodies

Implementation of
e-government

Search
warrant

48

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(3) A warrant to enter, search and seize may be issued at any time
and shall__
(a) identify the premises or information system that may be
entered and searched; and
(b) specify which acts may be performed by a cyber inspector
in accordance with this Part.
(4) A warrant to enter and search shall be valid__

(a) subject to paragraph (d), until the warrant has been
executed;
(b) until the warrant is cancelled by the court which issued it;
(c) until the purpose for issuing the warrant has lapsed; or
(d) until one month has passed from the date on which the
warrant was issued.

(5) A warrant to enter and search premises may be executed only
during the day, unless the court that issued it authorizes that it may
be executed at any other time.

Unauthorized
access,
interception or
interference
with data

(6) Prohibition of disclosure of information to unauthorized
persons shall be governed by the following provisions__
(a) except for the purposes of this Act or for the prosecution of
an offence or pursuant to an order of a court, a person who has,
pursuant to any powers conferred under this Part, obtained access
to any information shall not disclose such information to any
other person; and
(b) any person who contravenes paragraph (a), commits an
offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of
K 2,000,000 and to imprisonment for five years.
84.__(1) A person shall not gain unauthorized access to, or
intercept, or interfere with, data.
(2) The Minister shall, by regulations, come up with specific
cases where unauthorized access to, or interception of, or interference with, data may be permitted in specific conditions set out in
the regulations.
(3) Any person who intentionally accesses or intercepts any data
without authority or permission to do so, or who exceeds the
authorized access, commits an offence and shall, upon conviction,
be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and to imprisonment for five years.
(4) Any person who intentionally and without authority to do so,
interferes with data in a way which causes such data to be modified,
destroyed or otherwise rendered ineffective, commits an offence
and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and to
imprisonment for five years.

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(5) Any person who unlawfully produces, sells, offers to sell,
procures for use, designs, adapts for use, distributes or possesses
any device, including a computer program, a component or a phone,
which is designed primarily to overcome security measures for the
protection of data, or performs any of these acts with regard to a
password, access code or any other similar kind of data with the
intent to unlawfully utilizing such item, commits an offence and
shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and to
imprisonment for five years.

(6) Any person who utilizes any device or computer program
referred to in subsection (5) in order to unlawfully overcome
security measures designed to protect such data or access thereto,
commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of
K2,000,000 and to imprisonment for five years.

(7) Any person who commits any act described in this section
with the intent to interfere with access to an information system so
as to constitute a denial, including a partial denial, of service to
legitimate users commits an offence and shall be liable, upon
conviction, to a fine of K2,000,000 and to imprisonment for five
years.
(8) Any person who__

(a) communicates, discloses or transmits any data, information, program, access code or command to any person not entitled
or authorized to access the data, information, program, code or
command;

(b) knowingly introduces or spreads a software code that
damages a computer, computer system or network;

(c) accesses or destroys any files, information, computer
system or device without authorisation; or for the purposes of
concealing information necessary for an investigation into the
commission, or otherwise, of an offence; or

(d) damages, deletes, alters suppresses any communication or
data without authorisation,

commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine
of K2,000,000, and to imprisonment for five years.

(9) Any person who knowingly receives data which he is not
authorized to receive commits an offence and shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and to imprisonment
for five years.

49

50

Child
pornography

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

(10) Where an offence under this section is committed in
relation to data that is concerned with national security or the
provision of an essential service, the person shall, upon conviction,
be liable to imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years, but
not exceeding fifteen years.
85.__(1) Child pornography in an electronic form is prohibited
under this Act.
(2) Any person who__

(a) produces pornographic material for the purpose of its
distribution through a computer system;
(b) reproduces pornographic material for the purpose of its
distribution through an information system;
(c) offers or makes available any pornographic material
through an information system;
(d) exposes a child to pornographic material through an
information system;
(e) distributes or transmits any pornographic material through
an information system;
(f) procures any pornographic material through a computer
system for oneself or for another person; or
(g) possesses any child pornographic material in a computer
system or on a computer data storage medium,
commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a
fine of K10,000,000 and to imprisonment for fifteen years.

Prohibition of
cyber
harassment

(3) For the sake of protecting children from pornography as
provided in subsection (1)__
(a) establishments serving the public, and places open to the
public proposing access to internet shall use an adequate pornography filtering software as defined by subsidiary legislation made
under this Act;
(b) failure to comply with the obligation provided in this
subsection shall be an offence punishable, upon conviction, with
a fine of K10,000,000 and to imprisonment for fifteen years.

86. Any person who uses any computer system and
continues__
(a) making any request, suggestion or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious or indecent; or

(b) threatening to inflict injury or physical harm to the person
or property of any person; or

No. 33

Electronic Transactions

(c) knowingly permits any electronic communications device
to be used for any of the above-mentioned purposes,

commits an offence known as cyber harassment and shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and to
imprisonment for five years.

87. Any person who wilfully and repeatedly uses electronic
communication to disturb or attempts to disturb the peace, quietness
or right of privacy of any person with no purpose of legitimate
communication whether or not a conversation ensues, commits a
misdemeanour and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of
K1,000,000 and to imprisonment for twelve months.

88. Any person who wilfully, maliciously, and repeatedly uses
electronic communication to harass another person and makes a
threat with the intent to instil reasonable fear in that person for his
safety or to a member of that person’s immediate family, commits
an offence known as cyber stalking and shall, upon conviction, be
liable to a fine of K1,000,000 and to imprisonment for twelve
months.
89. Any person who hacks into any computer system, or
knowingly introduces or spreads a virus into a computer system or
network, commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to
a fine of K5,000.00 and to imprisonment for seven years.

90. Any person who wilfully or maliciously renders a
computer system incapable of providing normal services to its
legitimate users, commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be
liable to a fine of K5,000,000 and to imprisonment for seven years.

91. Any person who transmits any unsolicited electronic
information to another person for the purposes of illegal trade or
commerce, or other illegal activity, commits an offence and shall,
upon conviction, be liable to a fine of K2,000,000 and to
imprisonment for five years.

92. Any person who uses the internet as a medium for any
illegal activity or trade, fraudulent transaction or as a means of
procuring any internet related fraud, commits an offence and shall,
upon conviction, be liable to imprisonment for ten years.
93.__(1) A person who attempts to commit an offence under any
provision of this Act, commits an offence and shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a penalty not exceeding one half of the
maximum penalty imposable by the provision creating the complete
offence.

(2) A person who aids or abets any other person to commit any of
the offences under this Act, commits an offence and shall, upon

51

Prohibition of
offensive
communication

Prohibition of
cyber stalking

Prohibition of
hacking,
cracking and
introduction
of viruses
Unlawfully
disabling a
computer
system

Prohibition of
spamming

Prohibition of
illegal trade
and
commerce
Attempting,
aiding and
abetting
crime

52

Offences
committed by
legal persons

General offence
and penalty

Lodging of
complaints to
the Authority

Public
education
programmes

Intermediary
services
providers’ levy

Electronic Transactions

No. 33

conviction, be liable to a penalty imposable by the provision
creating the offence for actually committing the offence.

(3) The provisions of this section making reference to penalties
imposed upon conviction shall apply mutatis mutandis to
administrative monetary penalties imposable by the Authority under
this Act and any regulations made under the Act.

94. Where a legal person is convicted of an offence under this
Act, every person who__
(a) is a director of, or is otherwise concerned with the
management of, the legal person; and
(b) knowingly authorized or permitted the act or omission
constituting the offence,
commits the same offence which the legal person is guilty of,
and may be proceeded against and be sentenced accordingly.

95. A person who violates any provision of this Act, whose
penalty has not been provided, commits an offence and shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine of K5,000,000 and to imprisonment
for seven years.

PART XI__GENERAL PROVISIONS
96.__(1) Any person affected by a criminal offence defined under
this Act may lodge a complaint to the Authority which shall direct a
cyber inspector to assess the relevance of the complaint and, if the
complaint is considered relevant and reasonable, proceed with
investigations.
(2) Any interested organization whose members are affected by a
criminal offence defined under this Act is entitled to lodge a
complaint with the Authority.
(3) The Authority shall ensure that the complaining organization
is kept informed of the investigations.
97. The Authority shall implement public educational
programs on the safe use of internet focusing in particular on__
(a) scope of cybercrimes;
(b) tips on safe cyber experience;
(c) promotion of educational uses of Internet; and
(d) remedies and procedures when affected by cybercrime.

98. For the purposes of implementing the public educational
programmes referred to in section 97, the Authority may impose
intermediary service providers' levy on intermediary service
providers who offer access to communications networks.

No. 33

53

Electronic Transactions

99.__(1) In order to promote the development and the use of
information technologies and electronic communications in Malawi
and contribute to effective application of this Act, professional
associations and organizations shall be encouraged to develop codes
of conduct.
(2) A code of conduct shall in particular facilitate__

Codes of
conduct

(a) the implementation of self-regulation practices with the
assistance of representatives of consumers;
(b) access by consumers to information and advice regarding
e-commerce;

(c) the setting up of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms
between professionals and consumers at no fee to consumers;
and

(d) communication, cooperation, elaboration and effective
implementation of joint initiatives between companies, representative consumer associations and the Government to fight against
fraudulent, misleading and unfair practices.

(3) A code of conduct shall be notified to the Authority and enter
into force upon publication in the Gazette.

100. Where any inconsistency arises between a provision of this
Act and a provision of any other written law relating to the
regulation of electronic transactions, the provisions of this Act shall
prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.

101. The Authority may in its discretion impose administrative
penalties to persons who violate a provision of this Act or the
regulations made under it by imposing a fine not exceeding
K5,000, 000.
102.__(1) The Minister may, in consultation with the Authority,
by notice published in the Gazette, make regulations for carrying
out the purpose and provisions of this Act into effect and
prescribing all matters which are necessary or convenient to be
prescribed for the better carrying out of the provisions of this Act
and, without derogation from the generality of the foregoing, such
regulations may provide for__
(a) the requirements and standards which registries and the
registrar shall meet in order to operate with operational accuracy,
stability, robustness and efficiency;

(b) the circumstances and manner in which registrations may
be assigned, registered, renewed, refused, or revoked by the
registries;

Act to prevail
in case of
inconsistency
Administrativ
e penalties

Regulations

54

Electronic Transactions

(c) the pricing policy;

No. 33

(d) the provisions for the restoration of a domain name
registration and penalties for late payments;

(e) the terms of the domain name registration agreement
which registries and the registrar shall adopt and use in
registering domain names, including issues in respect of
privacy, consumer protection and alternative dispute
resolution;
(f) the processes and procedures to avoid unfair and
anticompetitive practices, including bias to, or preferential
treatment of actual or prospective registrants, registries or the
registrar, protocols or products;

(g) the requirements to ensure that each domain name
contains an administrative and technical contact;
(h) the creation of new sub-domains;

(i) the procedures for ensuring the monitoring of compliance
with this Act, including compliance with regular “.mw”
domain name and any other Malawian names to be used
for domain names space technical audits;
(j) any other matter relating to the “.mw” domain name
space and any other Malawian names to be used for domain
names as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of this
Act;

(k) declaring certain classes of information to be critical
data;

(l) establishing procedures for identification of database
with critical data;
(m) the registration of database with critical data;

(n) prescribing minimun standards regarding management,
access to transfer and control of databases with critical data;
(o) the inspection of databases by the Authority; and

(p) any other matter ralating to management, protection,
recovery and control of databases with critical data.

(2) Notwithstanding section 21 (e) of the General Interpretation
Act, the regulations, made under this Act may create offences in
respect of any contravention to the regulations, and may for any
such contravention impose a fine of up to K5,000,000 and to
imprisonment for up to seven years.

No. 33

55

Electronic Transactions

103. The Minister may, in consultation with the Authority, by
notice published in the Gazette, make an order to exempt certain
transactions from the application of the requirements of some
provisions of this Act.
104. The Minister shall, by order published in the Gazette,
appoint a date or dates beyond which stakeholders affected by this
Act, shall be required to comply with this Act.

Exemption
orders

Transitional
provision

Passed in Parliament this fourth day of July, two thousand and sixteen

FIONA KALEMBA
Clerk of Parliament

