 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PESURUHJAYA PERLINDUNGAN
DATA PERIBADI

 

Ref. No.
CoP_UTL(E)

 

 

 

 

IN exercise of the powers conferred by Section 23(3) of the Personal Data
Protection Act 2010 (Act 709), | hereby register the Code of Practice for the
Utilities (Electricity) Class of Data User and it is applicable to all data users under

the said class with immediate effect.

Dated: ) 2 June 2016

Ne

 

(MAZMALEK BIN MOHAMAD)
Personal Data Protection Commissioner, Malaysia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page |

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page 2

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

1.1 Intreduction

1.11

The Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (PDPA), which came into effect on 15
November 2013, requires a separate code of practice for each specific class of
data users,

In this Code, certain words are used. The meaning of those words are explained
in Appendix J (Definitions) of this Code.

This Code:-

(a) is developed by the Data User under Section 23(1)\(b) of the PDPA and is
applicable to the Utilities Sector (Electricity);

(b) regulates Processing of Personal Data by Data User and safeguards the
rights of the Data Subject and the Personal Data;

(c) provides operational approach to the principles of data protection under
the PDPA; and

(d} applies fo all Personal Data and/or Sensitive Personal Data Processed by
Data User.

The PDP Commissioner recognises that each Data User has different business
practices and operates from different business locations. The PDP
Commissioner grants each Data User the discretion and general flexibility to
respond to issues arising under this Code, provided that the PDP Commissioner
must be consulted before any Data User implements any action outside the
scope of this Code. The PDP Commissioner shall notify the Data User of any
decision within reasonable period after consultation, failing which, it is deemed
approved by the PDP Commissioner.

This Code governs the relationship between:-

(a) aData User and a Data Subject;

(b) a Data User and a Data Processor; and

(c) a Data User and its employees who Process Personal Data.

As an explanatory note:-

(a) TNB is licensed under the Electricity Supply Act 1990, to generate,
transmit and distribute electricity throughout Peninsular Malaysia to all
consumers of electricity, whether individual or corporate;

 

Persona] Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 3

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

1.2 Status

1.2.1

1.2.2

1.2.3

1.2.4

1.2.5

1.2.6

(b} SESB is licensed under the Electricity Supply Act 1990, to generate,
transmit and distribute electricity throughout Sabah and Federal Territory
Labuan to all consumers of electricity, whether individual or corporate;

(c) SESCO is licensed under Sarawak Electricity Ordinance (Chapter 50), to
generate, transmit and distribute electricity throughout Sarawak to all
consumers of electricity, whether individual or corporate; and

(d) a Data User will not be regarded as having breached this Code, if a Data
User is required to comply with all relevant or applicable laws, rules and
regulations governing the electricity supply industry.

This Code is effective once it is registered by the PDP Commissioner.

This Code applies to all Personal Data that is in the possession or under the
control of, or kept by a Data User.

A Data User who fails to comply with this Code may be regarded having
committed an offence, and once convicted, be liable to a fine not more than
RM100,000 or to imprisonment for a term net more than one year or to both,
under Section 29 of the PDPA.

Data User must also comply with the minimum requirements of the security
standards, retention standards, integrity standards and any standard(s) as may be
issued by the PDP Commissioner from time to time.

For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of any conflict between:

(a) the standards issued by the PDP Commissioner;
(b) this Code;

(c) any other standard{s) (or their equivalent) set by the Industry Regulator of
the Utilities Sector (Electricity); and/or

(d) any other standard(s) (or their equivalent) as may be prescribed by the law;

the document setting the higher standard will prevail to the extent of the
conflict.

In the event of any conflict between this Code and:-

(a) any laws, rules or regulations applicable to the electricity supply industry; or

(b) the terms or conditions of any licence or approvals issued or conditions
imposed by the Industry Regulator;

Data User is expected to comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to
the electricity supply industry.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 4

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

1.2.7 Inthe event of any conflict between the English and National Language versions of
the Code, the English version shall prevail.

1.2.8 Examples provided in this Code are not intended to be exhaustive but are included
for context and purposes of illustration.

1.2.9 Appendix V provided in this Code are not intended to be exhaustive but may be
amended from time to time as approved by the PDP Commissioner.

1.2.10 Recommendations provided in this Code specifically under Appendix II and [V
are not mandatory but are a guide on good practices that Data User is encouraged
to adopt.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 5

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

2.1 Background

2.1.1 Personal Data of the Data Subject includes:-

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

(f)
(g)
(h}

(i)

name;
address;

telephone number;
email address;

identification documents, such as Official Identification Documents, and
information contained on it;

photograph or video image;
audio recording;

all other information, whether verbal or Written, which identifies the Data .
Subject; and

all other contact detaiis or information related to item (a) to (k) provided by
the Data Subject.

In addition to the above list of Personal Data, the Data User may collect the
following Personal Data from the employees of the Data User;

(a)
(b)

fingerprint or DNA profile;

information on education or work background; and

(c) medical records or information.

2.1.2 Personal Data is Collected by Data User through:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

account opening forms;

account closing forms;

change of particulars forms;

electricity supply agreements;

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

(e)
(f)

image recorded through CCTV or other electronic media; and

other information or documents provided by a Data Subject in Writing, over
the telephone, electronically by Instant Messaging, email, or through the
Data User’s Corporate Website.

2.1.3 Section 5 of the PDPA sets out seven principles to be complied with by Data User
when Processing:-

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
)
(g)

General Principle;

Notice and Choice Principle;
Disclosure Principle;
Security Principle;
Retention Principle;

Data Integrity Principle; and

Access Principle.

2.2 General Principle (Section 6 of the PDPA)

General

2.2.1 Under the General Principle:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

consent should be obtained, except for situations described under 2.2.2;

explicit consent is required for the Processing of Sensitive Personal Data as
described under 4.2; and

Personal Data must only be Collected or Processed;

G) for a lawful purpose directly related to an activity of a Data User;
(ii} necessary for or directly related to that purpose; and

(iii) | adequate but not excessive in relation to that purpose.

Example A: When submitting an application form for electricity supply, the
Data Subject must provide the names of Data Subject’s family member and
this will not be considered as excessive.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709} Page 7

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Consent

2.2.2 Consent is not required if Processing is:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

()

(f)

requested by the Data Subject with a view to enter into a contract;

Example A: Where a Data Subject applies for electricity supply, he must
enter into a contract with the Data User.

Example Al: Where a contractor appointed by the Data Subject, collects,
submits and processes the Data Subject’s Personal Data to apply for
electricity supply on behalf of the Data Subject.

for the performance of a contract to which the Data Subject is a party;

Example B: Where a Data Subject enters into a contract with a Data User
in order to obtain electricity supply.

to comply with any legal obligation to which the Data User is the subject,
other than an obligation imposed by a contract;

Example C: The consent of the Data Subject is not required if the
Processing is due to a written request made to the Data User, by the
Federal or State Government or other law enforcement authorities, to
provide Personal Data of Data Subject, and such request complies with
Malaysian laws or statutory rules and regulations.

For example, a request from the Royal Malaysian Police, Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia, Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission, Ministry of
Domestic Trade, Co-operatives and Consumerism, Royal Malaysian
Customs Department and Malaysia Department of Insolvency to obtain the
Data Subject’s Personal Data for the purpose of investigation

to protect the vital interests of the Data Subject;

Example D: The consent of the Data Subject is not required if the
Processing is due to the written request by the Royal Malaysian Police or
the Data Subject’s spouse, parents and children in matters relating to life,
death or security of the Data Subject.

for the administration of justice; or
Example E: The consent from the Data Subject is not required, if the

Processing is for the purpose of litigation, mediation, arbitration,
conciliation proceedings or any similar in nature.

for the exercise of any functions conferred on any person by or under any
law.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 8

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

2.2.3

2.2.4

2.2.5

2.2.6

Example F: The consent from the Data Subject is not required, if the Processing
is fo comply with the court order.

The PDP Regulations provide that consent, whether express or implied, must be
obtained in any method capable of being recorded and maintained by a Data User.

Examples of such methods include:-

(a) signatures or clickable box indicating consent;
(b) deemed consent;

(c) verbal consent; or

(d) consent by conduct/performance.

Consent is deemed given by way of conduct/performance if:-

(a) the Data Subject does not object to the Processing;

(b) the Data Subject voluntarily Discloses Data Subject’s Personai Data; or
(c) the Data Subject proceeds to use the services of the Data User.

Verbal consent should be recorded either digitally (such as, through the use of call
logger and recorder software) or by issuing a communication (such as, a letter, a
form or an email from the Data User’s Corporate Website) to the Data Subject
confirming that consent was given.

For transactions between a Data User and a company, society, partnership,
organisation or any other legal entity (“the Legai Entities’) which involves any
Personal Data, it is the Legal Entities’ responsibility to obtain prior consent from
the owner of the Personal Data. For avoidance of doubt, the Legal Entities shall
warrant that consent from the owner of the Personal Data has been obtained in
accordance with PDPA.

Consent given on behalf of the Data Subject

2.2.7

Any consent given to a Data User shall bind the Data Subject if given:-

(a) by the parent(s), legal guardian(s} or person(s) who has parental
responsibility on the Data Subject, if the data subject is under the age of
18; or

(b) by a person who is appointed by a court to manage the affairs of the Data
Subject or a person authorized in writing by the Data Subject to act on his
behalf.

2.3 Notice and Choice Principle (Section 7 of the PDPA)

2.3.1

Data User must Disclose their PDP Notice to Data Subject before or as soon as
practicable after Collecting and Processing of Personal Data.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 9

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice ~ Utilities Sector (Electricity)

2.3.2 The PDP Notice must contain:-

(a}

(b)

(c)
(d)

(e)

(

(g)

(h)

that Personal Data of the Data Subject is being Processed by or on behalf of
the Data User, and its description

the purposes for which the Personal Data is being, or is to be, Collected and
Processed;

any available information on the source of Personal Data;

the Data Subject’s right to access and to correct Data Subject’s Personal
Data and how to contact the Data User for any inquiries/complaints. Data
User shall at least provide the following;

(i) designation of the contact person;
(ii) ~~ phone number;

(iii) = fax number (if any);

(iv) email address (if any); and

(v) such other related information.

a description of Third Parties as described in Appendix V to whom Personal
Data may be Disclosed and the reasons for Disclosure

the choices and means the Data User offers the Data Subject for limiting
the Processing of Data Subject’s Personal Data, including Personal Data
relating to other persons who may be identified from that Personal Data;

a statement whether the Disclosure of Personal Data is compulsory or
voluntary; and.

if the Disclosure of Personal Data by Data Subject is compulsory, the
consequences of failing to do so.

2.3.3. The PDP Notice must be issued by Data User in English and in National
Language.

Method of Communicating the PDP Notice

2.34 The service of PDP Notice to the Data Subject shall be effected, by using one or
more of these methods:-

(a)
(b)

)

by delivering the PDP Notice to the Data Subject; or

by leaving the PDP Notice at the last-known address of residence or place of
business of the Data Subject in a covered address to that Data Subject; or

by forwarding the PDP Notice by posted in and A.R registered at later
addressed to the Data Subject at Data Subject’s last-known address of
residence of place of business; Where a person refuses or neglects to take

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 10

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

delivery of an A.R. registered letter, such PDP Notice shall be deemed to
have been served to the Data Subject.

2.3.5 The PDPA does not require proof that the PDP Notice is received and/or accepted
by the Data Subject.

2.4 Disclosure Principle (Section 8 of the PDPA)

2.4.1 The Disclosure Principle is related to the Notice and Choice Principle and for the
purpose for which Personal Data is Collected.

Permitted Disclosures

2.4.2 Subject to 2.4.3, no Personal Data shall be disclosed without the consent of the
Data Subject for any purpose other than:-

(a) the purpose declared at the point of Collection; or

Example A: In the Process of supplying electricity, Data Subject’s Personal
Data has to be provided to the Third Party to whom the Daia User has
outsourced some of its activities.

(b) for a purpose directly related to the purpose declared at the point of
Collection (for example, a purpose closely associated to the primary

purpose); or

Example B: A Data Subject defaults on Data Subject’s electricity bill or tax
invoice. The Data User Discloses the relevant particulars of the Data
Subject and Data Subject’s debt to a solicitor or debt collection agent to
recover the amounts outstanding.

(c) to any party other than a third party of the class of third parties as specified
in Appendix V. The Data User shall keep and maintain a list of Disclosure
to third parties for the purposes of this paragraph in relation to Personal
Data of the Subject Data that has been or is being Processed by the Data
User.

Extent of Disclosure of Personal Data

 

2.4.3 Personal Data may be Disclosed for any purpose or to any person not mentioned
under the PDP Notice under the following circumstances:-

{a) the Data Subject has given Data Subject’s consent to the Disclosure;

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 11

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Example A: The Data User realises that consent is required and proceeds
to write to the Data Subject requesting for such consent, which is then
provided by the Data Subject.

(b) to prevent or detect a crime, or for investigations;

Example B; Where there has been a security breach within the Data User’s
organization or premises, and the Data User proceeds to Disclose the
information to a forensics specialist for internal investigation.

(c) authorized by any law or court order;

Example C: Where Disclosures are made by a Data User to regulatory
authorities having jurisdiction over the Data User, or where Disclosure by
the Data User is necessary to comply with a court order.

(d} the Data User acted in the reasonable belief that the Data User had in law
the right to Disclose the Personal Data to the other person;

Example D: An injunction is served on the Data User in respect of a Data
Subject’s account, requesting the Data User to Disclose Personal Data.

Example Di: Where there is proclamation of sale, the Data User may
Discioses Data Subject’s Personal Data to the successful bidder and/or
Data Subject’s solicitor.

(e) the Data User reasonably believed that the Data Subject will consent;

Example E; For the payment of electricity bill or tax invoice, the Data User
Discloses Personal Data to Data Subject’s family members.

(f) the Disclosure was made in the public interest as determined by the
Minister;

Permitted Disclosure as requested by regulatory, statutory authority or as required by a
court order

2.4.4 Ifarequest for Disclosure is directed to a Data User by any regulatory or statutory
authority, or where the Disclosure is required or authorised by or under any law or
by an order of court, the Data User must:-

(a) release the requested Personal Data upon receipt of Written request citing
the relevant legal basis of the request; and

(b) wherever appropriate, set conditions stipulating the permitted use of
Personal Data and its return.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 12

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

2.5 Security Principle (Section 9 of the PDPA)

2.5.1

2.5.2

2.5.3

2.5.4

Under the Security Principle, Data User should take practical steps in order to
safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of Personal Data within the
control of a Data User. The steps include implementing appropriate
administrative, physical and technical measures to protect Personal Data from any
loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access, Disclosure,
alteration or destruction.

The meaning of “practical steps” will vary from case to case, depending on the
nature of Personal Data being Processed by the Data User and the degree of
sensitivity attached to the Personal Data or the harm that the Data Subject might
suffer due to its loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access,
Disclosure, alteration or destruction.

Data User should take practical steps in implementing security measures to
protect Personal Data within the control of a Data User, by taking into
consideration of the following:-

(a} the nature of Personal Data and the harm that would result from such loss,
misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access, Disclosure,
alteration or destruction;

(b) _ the place or location where Personal Data is stored shall not be exposed to
physical and natural threats,

(c) any security measures incorporated into any equipment in which Personal
Data is stored;

(d) the measures taken for ensuring the reliability, integrity and competence of
personnel having access to Personal Data; and

(e) the measures taken for ensuring the secure transfer of Personal Data.

The Data User shall assess their existing policies and implement measures,
including but not limited to the following:

(a) Administrative:-
Gj)  Confidentiality/ Non-disclosure Agreement;
(ii) | Supervision/ monitoring of personnel;
(iii) Training and education plan for personnel;

(b) Physical:-
GQ) Door access system to control entry into and exit from premises
where Persona] Data is stored;
(ii) CCTV Gf required);
(iit) 24 hours security surveillance (if required);
_ (iv) for Personal Data that is processed manually, the measures include;

. Filing the Personal Data in organised manner;
. Keeping files containing Personal Data in locked storage
facilities;

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 13

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

2.5.5

° Keeping storage keys in a secure place/area; and
* Recording the movement of storage keys.

{c) Technical:-
(i) Access authorisation systems;
(11) Back-up/ Recovery System;
Gii) Anti-virus and anti-malware software; and
(iv) — Encryption (if required).

In addition, a Data User should consider implementing disaster recovery plans
and business continuity plans to effectively secure Personal Data against any
possible disaster and business interruption. Periodical review and testing should
be conducted by Data User to ensure the effectiveness of their disaster recovery
and business continuity plans. Records of such review and testing should be
maintained by Data User.

Data Processor

2.5.6

2.5.7

If a Data Processor is appointed by the Data User, such as an outsourced service
provider, vendor or supplier, it is recommended that Data User uses reasonable
efforts to include in its agreement with the Data Processor (whether in the form of
a contract, letter or any formal written document):-

(a) confidentiality, non-disclosure and security requirements;
(b) conditions under which Personal Data may be Processed;

(c) representations, undertakings, warranties and/or indemnities which are to be
provided by the Data Processor;

(d} security measures governing the Processing to be carried out as may be -

contained in the Data User’s internal security policy and/or standards.

Access to Data User’s premises or equipment must be on a need to basis and must
not be given to anyone who is not an employee of the Data Processor, or for a
purpose not related to the Processing of Personal Data, unless agreed by an
employee authorised by the Data User.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 14

 

 
Tn

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)
2.6 Retention Principle (Section 10 of the PDPA)

Retention of Personal Data

2.6.1 The PDPA does not specify the applicable durations that Personal Data may be
retained by a Data User as long as it is necessary to fulfil the purpose for which it
was collected and in relation to the Data User’s business needs.

2.6.2 If Personal Data is to be destroyed, Data User is required to permanently destroy
or delete manual and electronic versions of Personal Data.

2.6.3 In cases where a Data User needs to retain Personal Data beyond a specified
statutory period, the Data User should be able to show a reasonable need to retain
Personal Data beyond the applicable statutory period.

Example A: The commencement of legal proceedings or investigations
concerning the Data Subject would qualify as grounds for continuing to retain the
Personal Data until the disposal/closure of the matter and the expiry of the
retention period specific to the matter itself.

2.6.4 The PDPA does not replace other provisions of Malaysian law that require the
retention of information or documents for a specified minimum duration, such as,
the Companies Act 1965, Income Tax Act 1967, Employment Act 1955, Sabah
Labour Ordinance, Sarawak Labour Ordinance, the Limitation Act 1953, Sarawak
Limitation Ordinance, and Sabah Limitation Ordinance (Cap 72). The PDPA and
other applicable laws must be read together.

2.6.5 Personal Data may be retained as long as it is required for the following
purposes:-

(a) legal proceedings or a regulatory or similar investigation or obligation to
produce the said information;

(b) acrime is suspected or detected; or
(c) information is considered to be of potential historical importance,
Provided that Data User shall not use the Personal Data retained for any other

purposes. This requirement applies to both manual and electronic copies of
documents containing Personal Data:

Destruction of Personal Data

2.6.6 “Destruction” is applicable to paper based Personal Data and “Permanent
Deletion” is applicable to electronic based Personal Data.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 15

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

2.6.7

2.6.8

2.6.9

2.6.10

2.6.11

2.6.12

Personal Data which is physically archived is still subject to the provisions of the
PDPA and will continue to remain so until it is destroyed, permanently deleted or
anonymised. The Data User’s retention policies should address restricted access
to and the destruction of Personal Data.

Data User will need to utilise proper means to destroy Personal Data, such as,
using a shredder machine or incinerating the discarded Personal Data.

In terms of Personal Data stored on an electronic medium, the “permanent
deletion” of the Personal Data will require the electronic media (such as, hard
drive or a USB thumb drive) to be wiped clean once the data has been deleted.
Data User is to take reasonable effort to permanently delete Personal Data from
electronic media.

Personal Data may also be retained for statistics or analysis basis provided that
the Data Subject’s Personal Data has been anonymised.

For inactive Personal Data, the Data User should have a disposal schedule for a
period of 24 months. The disposal schedule should be properly maintained.

The Data User should dispose personal data collection form which is used for
commercial transaction within the period of 14 days, unless the form has legal
value that relates to the commercial transaction.

2.7 Data Integrity Principle (Section 11 of the PDPA)

2.7.1

Under the Data Integrity Principle, Data User must take reasonable steps to ensure
that Personal Data is “accurate, complete, not misleading and kept up-to-date”,
having regard to the purpose for which Personal Data was Collected and Processed.
Data User are not required to verify the accuracy and completeness of Personal
Data.

Reasonable Steps

2.7.2

These “reasonable steps’ depend on the circumstances of each case and the
purpose why Personal Data was Collected.

Example A: Where Personal Data is retained by the Data User for issuing monthly
electricity bills or tax invoices to the Data Subject, it is reasonable for the Daia
User to ensure that the Personal Data remains correct by way of verifying the
Personal Data based on Official Identification Documents from the Data Subject.
However, it is unreasonable to expect the Data User to ensure that the address of
the Data Subject is always kept up-to-date.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 16

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Example B: The Data User may remind the Data Subject to update the Personal
Data by notifving the Data Subject through the electricity bill or tax invoice
and/or Data User’s Corporate Websites, But it is the responsibility of the Data
Subject to notify the Data User of any changes to the Personal Data.

Personal Data is Accurate, Complete, Not Misleading and Kept Up-To-Date

 

2.7.3 The Data Subject must take reasonable steps to ensure that Personal Data
Processed in relation to a Data Subject is:-

{a)
(b)

i)

(d)

Accurate — meaning that the Personal Data is captured correctly.

Complete — meaning that there is no omission of details in the Data Subject
Personal Data; for example, the information recorded by the Data User must
correctly reflect the information given by the Data Subject.

Not misleading — meaning that Personal Data Processed should not be
ambiguous, deceiving or an oversight; for example, the marital status of the
Data Subject should not be falsely reflected by the Data User.

Kept up-to-date — meaning that the Data User should ensure that the
Personal Data is the latest data given by the Data Subject; for example, the
change of address made by the Data Subject must be recorded by the Data
User.

Complying with the Data Integrity Principle

 

2.7.4 The following steps may be considered by Data User to comply with the Data
Integrity Principle:-

2.7.5

2.7.6

(a)

(b)

The Data User may require the Data Subject fo inform the Data User of any
change to Data Subject’s Personal Data. The Data User will not be in breach
of the Data Integrity Principle if the Data User is not informed by the Data
Subject of changes to Data Subject’s Personal Data.

The Data User will provide a Data Correction Request to update or correct
Data Subject’s Personal Data at branches of the Data User and at other points
of contact with Data Subject.

The Data User will not be in breach of the Data Integrity Principle if the Personal
Data provided by the Data Subject is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading and not
up-to-date.

The Data User need not update or correct Data Subject’s Personal Data based on
information given by any party other than the Data Subject.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 17

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

2.7.7 The Data Integrity Principle will not be breached ift-

(a) a Data User retains Personal Data which is historical in nature (for example,
the previous address of the Data Subject); and

(b) a Data User retains Personal Data that records events that happened in error
(for example, where a Data Subject’s account was accidentally terminated

but has since been reinstated, the Data User is permitted to retain all records
as it accurately reflect the error).

2.8 Access Principle (Section 12 of the PDPA)
2.8.1 Under the Access Principle, Data Subject shall be given the following rights:-
(a) the right to access to Data Subject’s Personal Data as set out in 3.1; and

(b) the right to correct Data Subject’s Personal Data which is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date as set out in 3.2.

2.8.2 The right to access under 2.8.1 (a) can be refused by the Data User as stated in
3.1.15.

2.8.3 The right to correct under 2.8.1(b) can be refused by the Data User as stated in
3.2.9.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 18

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

3.1 Right of Access to Personal Data (Section 30 of the PDPA)

3.1.1

Data Subject/Relevant Person has the right to access Data Subject’s Personal Data
or Data Access Request (“DAR”) by;

(a) using the form as set out in Appendix VI of this Code; and

(b) if required, paying the prescribed fee under the PDP (Fees) Regulations as
set out in 3.1.9.

Data Subject/Relevant Person may only access Data Subject’s own Personal Data
and must not be granted access to another person’s Personal Data.

Where a Data Subject/Relevant Person does not require a copy of Personal Data,
Data Subject/ Relevant Person shall inform the Data User in writing of the Data
Subject’s intention upon making a DAR of the Data Subject’s Personal Data.

Upon receiving the DAR, the Data User shail acknowledge the receipt of such
request and must provide to the Data Subject/Relevant Person, a copy of the Data
Subject’s Personal Data in an intelligible form.

However, the Data User has the right to refuse DAR submitted by the Data
Subject/Relevant Person as provided under 3.1.16.

Data Subject/Relevant Person is entitled to access Data Subject’s Personal Data
by submitting a DAR at the Data User’s premises.

Data User need to submit a copy of Personal Data to the Data Subject/Relevant
Person, within 21 Days from the date of receipt of such DAR, and shall be taken
by the Data Subject/Relevant Person or by authorised representative at the counter
where the proposed DAR is submitted.

Where the initial 21 Days from the date of receipt of such DAR is insufficient,
Data User must notify the Data Subject/Relevant Person in writing of any delay
and an extension of not more than 14 Days from the date of receipt of such DAR
is automatically granted to the Data User.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 19

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.1.9 Data User is entitled to charge the Data Subject/Relevant Person for each DAR

submitted. The maximum fees payable by a Data Subject/Relevant Person for the
a DAR are:-

submission of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) For Personal Data with a copy 10

(b) For Personal Data without a copy 2

(c) For Sensitive Personal Data with a 30
copy

(d) For Sensitive Personal Data without a 5
copy

 

 

3.1.10 Where a Data Subject has more than one account with a Data User, and the Data
Subject/Relevant Person requests access to Data Subject’s Personal Data for more
than one account, the Data Subject/Relevant Person is required to submit a

separate DAR

for each account.

3.1.11 If there is any request for a copy of electricity bill by the Data Subject/Relevant
Person, Data User may charge the Data Subject/Relevant Person based on 3.1.9.

DAR Processing

3.1.12 Data User has the right to require the Data Subject/ Relevant Person to verify

Data Subject’s identity to the Data User’s satisfaction ift-

(a) the Data Subject’s identification details do not correspond with the Data
Subject’s details kept by the Data User;

(b} the Data Subject/Relevant Person does not pay the prescribed fees for the

DAR; or

(c) the Personal Data requested is not clearly specified in the DAR.

3.1.13 Before Processing a DAR, the Data User may, if it is of the view that it is
necessary and/or appropriate, contact the Data Subject/Relevant Person at Data
Subject’s last known telephone number/facsimile number/e-mail address to
confirm that the DAR is genuine (for example, where there is suspicion of
deception/false or misleading information is provided/insufficient documentation

provided).

3.1.14 Where the Data User is uncertain as to exactly what Personal Data is being
requested by the Data Subject/Relevant Person under the DAR, the Data User
may request for further information, such as, account numbers, dates of

communication or description of the interaction with the Data User.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page 20

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.1.15 Once the Data User has obtained all the necessary information required to Process
the DAR, the requested Personal Data must be provided to the Data
Subject/Relevant Person or to authorised representative, except where a DAR
may be rejected under the PDPA and as set out in 3.1.16.

3.1.16 Data User has the right not to comply with or to reject a DAR if:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

D

{g)
(h)

the DAR is requested by the Data Subject himself and the Data User is not
supplied with necessary information as may reasonably require in order to
satisfy the Data User as to the identity of the Data Subject (for example,
Data Subject’s name, identification card number, address, and such other
related information as the Data User may determine);

the DAR is requested by the Relevant Person and the Data User is not
supplied with such information as may reasonably require in order to satisfy
the Data User;

G) as to the identity of the Data Subject in relation to the Relevant
Person; and

(ii} as to the identity of the Relevant Person in relation to the Data
Subject.

the Data User is not supplied with such information as the Data User may
reasonably require to locate the Personal Data to which the data access
request relates;

the burden or expense of providing access to the Personal Data is not
proportionate to the risk to the Data Subject’s privacy (for example, if the
time and cost to be incurred by the Data User is greater than the significance
of the data requested under DAR);

the Data User is unable to comply with the DAR without Disclosing another
individual’s Personal Data, unless the individual has consented to the
Disclosure to the Data Subject/Relevant Person, or unless the Data User
knows it is reasonable to comply with the DAR without the consent of the
other individual;

if the DAR is made to the Data User but the processing of the Personal Data
is controlled by the other data user to which the Data User is in such a way
is prohibited from complying with the DAR, whether in whole or in part,
except to any extent that the Data User can comply with the DAR without
contravening the prohibition concerned;

providing access would violate a court order;
providing access would Disclose confidential commercial information;

such access is regulated by a law other than the PDPA, such as, laws or
regulations relating to the supply of electricity.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 21

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.1.17

3.1.18

3.1.19

3.1.20

3.1.21

Where a Data User receives a verbal request to access Personal Data, the Data
User is not required to respond to such request. However, the Data User should
guide the Data Subject on the proper method of submitting a valid DAR and
provide assistance as may be required by the Data Subject to submit a DAR.

Data User must maintain a record of all DAR received and the decisions made on
approving or not approving each DAR. This will enable the Data User to answer
any enquiry from the Data Subject/Relevant Person or investigations by the PDP
Commissioner.

Where a Data User unable to comply with a DAR, the Data User is obliged within
21 Days from the date of receipt of such DAR to provide the Data
Subject/Relevant Person or Data Subject’s authorized representative with a
written notice, with reasons for such refusal and subject to an extension of 14
Days.

The PDP Regulations provide that where a Data Subject does not require a copy
of the Personal Data, the Data Subject must inform the Data User in writing of the
Data Subject’s reasons for submitting the DAR. Data User may assume that the
Data Subject is submitting the DAR to either:-

(a) confirm whether or not the Data User retains any Personal Data in respect of
the Data Subject; or

(b) provide the Data Subject with details, but not a copy, of the requested
Personal Data.

A DAR needs to be specific as to the Personal Data that is being sought. in this
context, a request for “all Personal Data” is not considered a valid DAR.

3.2 Right to Correct Personal Data (Section 34 of the PDPA)

3.2.1

3.2.2

3.2.3

Data Subject/Relevant Person has the right to correct Data Subject’s Personal Data
or Data Correction Request (“DCR”) by using the form as set out in Appendix VI
of this Code.

However, the Data User has the right to refuse DCR submitted by the Data
Subject/Relevant Person as provided under 3.2.9.

The Data Subject/ Relevant Person may submit a DCR to the Data User to correct
Data Subject’s Personal Data at the Data User's premises, if:-

(a) after receiving a copy of the Personal Data from the Data User under 3.1.4,
the Data Subject knows that Data Subject’s Personal Data may be
inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date; or

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 22

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.24

3.2.5

3.2.6

3.2.7

3.2.8

3.2.9

(b) the Data Subject knows that Data Subject’s Personal Data may be
inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date.

Data User must deliver a copy of the corrected Personal Data to the Data
Subject/Relevant Person, within 2] Days from the date of receipt of the DCR, and
to the Data Subject personally over the counter at which the DCR is submitted.

Where the initial 21 Days from the date of receipt of the DCR is insufficient, the
Data User shall by notice in writing inform the Data Subject of the delay and an
extension of not more than 14 Days is granted to the Data User.

Data User is not entitled to require any payment from the Data Subject for the
DCR.

Data User may request for supporting evidence from Data Subject before making
any corrections under a DCR.

If Personal Data has been Disclosed to a Third Party to a third party during the 12
months immediately preceding the day on which the correction is made, the Data
User must take practicable steps to supply the Third Party with a copy of the
corrected Personal Data together with a written notice stating reasons for the
correction. The corrected Personal Data shall be personally collected by the Third
Party at the Data User’s premises.

Data User has the right not to comply with or to refuse a DCR if:-

(a) the DCR is requested by the Data Subject himself and the Data User is not
supplied with necessary information as the Data User may reasonably
require in order to satisfy the Data User as to the identity of the Data Subject
(for example, Data Subject’s name, identification card number, address, and
such other related information as the Data User may determine);

(b) the DCR is requested by the Relevant Person and the Data User is not
supplied with such information as may reasonably require in order to satisfy

the Data User;
(i) as to the identity of the Data Subject in relation to the Relevant Person;
and

(il) as to the identity of the Relevant Person in relation to the Data Subject,
the Data User is unable to verify that the Data Subject is the person
who submitted the DCR;

(c) the data user is not supplied with such information as he may reasonably
require to ascertain in what way the personal data to which the data
correction request relates is Inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-
date:

Example A: The Data Subject submits a DCR to correct Data Subject’s
name but does not provide supporting documents from the National
Registration Department.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 23

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

(d) the Data User is not satisfied that the personal data to which the data
correction request relates is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-
date;

(ec) the data user is not satisfied that the correction which is the subject of the
data correction request is accurate, complete, not misleading or up-to-date;
or

(f) ifthe DCR is made to the Data User but the processing of the Personal Data
is controlled by the other data user to which the Data User is in such a way
is prohibited from complying with the DCR, whether in whole or in part,
except to any extent that the Data User can comply with the DCR without
contravening the prohibition concerned;

3.2.10 Data User must maintain a record of all DCR received and the decisions made on

approving or not approving each DAR. This will enable the Data User to answer
any enquiry from the Data Subject or investigations by the PDP Commissioner.

3.2.11 Where a Data User unable to comply with a DCR, the Data User must, within 21

Days from the date of receipt of such DCR to provide the Data Subject/Relevant
Person with a written notice of the refusal to comply together with reasons subject
to an extension of 14 Days.

3.3 Right to Prevent Processing Likely to Cause Damage or Distress (Section 42 of the

PDPA)

3.3.1

3.3.2

3.3.3

Data Subject may, at any time, request in Writing that the Data User ceases or not
begins the Processing of Personal Data. The Data Subject must give reasons that
such Processing causes or is likely to cause substantial and unwarranted damage
or distress to the Data Subject.

Under 3.3.1, “unwarranted” and “substantial damage or distress” may be
illustrated as set out below:-

(a) “substantial damage” includes financial loss suffered by the Data Subject;

(b) “substantial distress” includes emotional or mental trauma suffered by the
Data Subject; and

(c) “unwarranted” means that the damage or distress suffered by the Data
Subject is not justifiable.

The Data Subject does not have the right to prevent Processing where:-

(a) the Data Subject has consented to the Processing; or
(b} the Processing is necessary; :

(i) for the performance of a contract that the Data Subject has entered into;

(ii) to take steps at the request of the Data Subject with a view to entering
into a contract;

(iii) for compliance with legal obligations that apply to the Data User, other
than a contractual obligation; or

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 24

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.3.4

3.3.5

3.3.6

3.3.7

3.3.8

(iv) to protect the Data Subject’s vital interests, which mean matters
relating to life, death or security of a Data Subject.

The Data User may consider the following before deciding to comply or not to
comply with a Data Subject Notice:-

(a} the Data Subject is required to provide valid reasons that the damage or
distress caused will be “substantial” and “unwarranted”; and/or

(b) ifthe Data User feels that any damage or distress caused to the Data Subject
is warranted or is not substantial, the Data User is entitled to not comply
with the request. However, the Data User must provide the Data Subject
with reasons for the refusal.

Upon receiving a Data Subject Notice, the Data User must, within 21 Days,
provide that Data Subject with a Written notice:-

(a) | stating that the Data User has complied or intends to comply with the Data
Subject Notice; or

(b) stating the reasons of not to comply with the Data Subject Notice which is
unjustified and the extent, if any, to which the Data User has complied or
intends to comply.

If the Data User decides not to comply with the Data Subject Notice, the Data
Subject may submit an application to the PDP Commissioner to require the Data
User to comply with the Data Subject Notice.

The PDP Commissioner may require the Data User to comply with the Data
Subject Notice, if the PDP Commissioner is satisfied that the Data Subject Notice
is justified or justified to any extent,

A Data User who fails to comply with the requirement of the PDP Commissioner
under 3.3.7 commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to both.

3.4 Right to Prevent Processing for Purposes of Direct Marketing (Section 43 of the PDPA)

3.4.1

The PDPA permits Data User to conduct Direct Marketing to Data Subjects:-
(a) if explicit consent is obtained from the Data Subject;

(b) for the Collection of Personal Data for sale of products or provision of
services;

(c) if the Data Subject is informed of the identity of Direct Marketing
organisations and the purpose of Collection and Disclosure;

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 25

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.4.2

3.4.3

3.4.4

(dj) if the products and services offered to the Data Subject are similar to
products and services generally provided by the Data User; and

{e) the Data User has provided an opt-out facility for the Data Subject during
the Collection of the Personal Data.

However, marketing materials that are not directed at particular individuals but
are instead sent to all customers of a Data User or to an entire category/type of
customers of a Data User will not be considered Direct Marketing for purposes of
the PDPA and this Code.

Example A: Including marketing/promotional inserts in electricity bills or tax
invoices issued to all customers of a Data User does not amount to Direct
Marketing.

Example B: Directing promotional material to selected Data Subjects with a
record of prompt payment of electricity bills or tax invoices does not amount to
Direct Marketing.

Data User are permitted to communicate advertising or marketing materials to a

Data Subject by using that Personal Data (for example, name, address, mobile

phone numbers, e-mail address), which was provided by:-

(a) the Data Subject when signing up for products or services of the Data User;
or

(b}) Data Subjects who are not customers of the Data User, but who have
expressed an interest in the products or services of the Data User (for
example, where the Data Subject calls up the customer service department
of a Data User making enquiries in respect of its products and services);

if the Data User obtained consent from the Data Subject before commencing
Direct Marketing.

For Direct Marketing, Data User are permitted to obtain Personal Data of
individuals, who are not their customers or with whom they do not have a pre-
existing relationship, from Third Party sources. However, Data User must take
practical steps to ensure that consent is obtained from those individuals for
Collection or Disclosure for Direct Marketing.

However, Data User are not prevented from contacting Data Subject for Direct
Marketing, if the Data User provides an opt-out facility, to allow or not allow the
use of Personal Data for Direct Marketing.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 26

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

3.4.5

3.4.6

3.4.7

Data Subject may, at any time, provide a Written notice to the Data User to
require the Data User, within a reasonable time frame, to stop or not to start the
Processing of Personal Data for Direct Marketing. The Data User must comply
with such Written notice.

If the Data User refuses to comply with such Written notice, the Data Subject may
request the PDP Commissioner to direct compliance by the Data User.

If the PDP Commissioner is satisfied with the complaint from the Data Subject,
the PDP Commissioner may require the Data User to comply with the Written
notice from the Data Subject.

3.5 Right to Withdraw Consent to the Processing of Personal Data (Section 38 of the PDPA)

3.5.1

Upon receiving the Data Subject’s Notice withdrawing consent to process Data
Subject’s Personal Data, the Data User may still Process Personal Data if the
withdrawal of consent would affect the rights and obligations of the Data User
under contract or legislation, as set out below:-

(a) the right to be paid for services rendered, for example, the settlement of all
electricity bills or tax invoices, overdue payments and cases on electricity
theft;

(b) the right to bring and maintain legal proceedings against the Data Subject;

(c) the right to commence or continue with internal investigations involving the
Data Subject;

(d) the obligation to maintain Personal Data for such durations as required
under applicable legislation; for example, to retain Personal Data under the
National Archive Act 2003; and

{e) the conduct of internal audits, risk management and/or fulfilment of legal or
regulatory reporting requirements.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 27

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

4.1 Personal Data

4.1.1 Data User has access to information from different individuals during its day to
day operations. However, not all information is considered to be Personal Data.

4.1.2 The following information is not considered to be Personal Data, therefore it is
not covered under PDPA and this Code:-

(a) data relating to deceased persons;

(b) data relating to a company, society, partnership, organisation or any other
legal entity;

(c) aggregated and/or anonymised data (no name basis) wherein the person is
non-identifiable.

(d} electronically archived and /or backed up data.

41.3. The Data User does not require consent for Processing in the following
situations:-
(a) consent of Data User’s employee to Process that employee’s Personal Data

(b)

(c)

as part of that employee’s employment contract with the Data User, since
such Processing is deemed to be consented to by that employee;

Data User may request Data Subject to provide Personal Data relating to the
Data Subject’s family members and Data User are not required to obtain
consent from the family members for purposes relating to supply of
electricity; and

Data User does not require consent from vendors/suppliers, contractors,
consultants and/or contract counterparties for information on their officers,
employees, authorised signatories, directors or shareholders for the
provision of goods or services to or by a Data User.

4.2 Sensitive Personal Data

4.2.1 Certain Personal Data can be classified as Sensitive Personal Data. Sensitive
Personal Data consists of information related to the following:-

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

the physical or mental health or condition of Data Subject;

the political opinions of Data Subject;
the religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature of Data Subject;
the commission or alleged commission of any offence by Data Subject; or

any other Personal Data determined by the Minister.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 28

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

4.2.2 Processing of Sensitive Personal Data is only allowed under the following
circumstances:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

with the explicit consent of the Data Subject;
Example Al: Data Subject provides identification card to be photocopied
or scanned by the Data User for supply application or obtaining the

services of Data Users.

Example A2. Explicit consent by conduct of Data Subject by voluntarily
provides the Sensitive Personal Data to Data User.

Example A3; Data Subject provides verbal statement giving consent for the
Processing of Personal Data which being recorded and maintained.

if the Processing is necessary for any of the following purposes:-

a) for the performance of any right or obligation which is conferred or
imposed by law on the Data User in connection with employment;

(i) sin order to protect the vital interests of another person, in a case
where consent by or on behalf of the Data Subject has been
unreasonably withheld;

(iii) for medical purposes;

(iv) any legal proceedings;

(v) obtaining legal advice;

(vi) establishing, exercising or defending legal rights;

(vii) administration of justice;

(viii) exercise of the functions conferred on any person by or under any
Written law;

(ix) for any other purposes as the Minister thinks fit; or

the information contained in the Personal Data has been made public as a
result of steps deliberately taken by the Data Subject.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 29

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

4.3 Refund of Deposits

4.3.1

4.3.2

4.3.3

The Data Subject may have deposited money with a Data User during the opening
of an account. The Data User, upon receiving an account closing form from the
Data Subject, must refund to the Data Subject the deposit either by way of cash,
postal order, electronic fund transfer or cheque. However, the deposit may not be
successfully refunded:-

(a) ifthe correspondence addresses provided by the Data Subject is incorrect or
incomplete;

(b) if the contact number of the Data Subject is inactive or incorrect; or

(c) ifthe Data Subject changes Data Subject’s address or contact details without
notifying the Data User.

Money deposited must be refunded by the Data User upon receiving a discharge
and indemnity letter submitted by a family member of the Data Subject together
with sufficient supporting documents as proof of family relationship.

The Data Subject must notify the Data User of any inaccuracy in any document
containing Data Subject’s Personal Data and the Data Subject must submit a DCR
to the Data User.

4.4 Appointment of Meter Reader

441

4.4.2

Data User may appoint a meter reader who is not the employee of the Data User
to conduct meter reading.

If a Data User appoints a meter reader to Process Personal Data, it is
recommended that the Data User used reasonable efforts to ensure that their
agreement with the meter reader (whether in the form of a contract, letter or any
formal written document) include:-

(a) confidentiality, non-disclosure and security requirements;
(b) the conditions under which Personal Data may be Processed;

(c) the representations, undertakings, warranties and/or indemnities which are to
be provided by the meter reader;

(d) the technical and organizational security measures governing the Processing
to be carried out as may be contained in the Data User’ internal security
policy and/or standards; and

(e} the deletion, destruction and/or return of Personal Data that is under the
control of the meter reader upon completion or termination of the contract,
unless Data User decides otherwise.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 30

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

4.5 Certificate of Registration

4.5.1

4.5.2

4.5.3

Data User shall display copy of the Certificate of Registration certified by the
PDP Commissioner at the principal place of business of each branch of the Data
User.

A “branch” means any office operated by the Data User where interaction occurs
with Data Subject. However, kiosks, exchanges, offices where there is no
interaction with the Data User, premises operated by marketing agents or dealers
and premises of the Data Processor are not considered to be a branch for purposes
of this Code.

The Data User may display the Certificate of Registration on notice boards within
the premises, on electronic displays, on the screens of self-service terminals and
on the Corporate Websites of the Data User.

4.6 Transfer of Personal Data

4.6.1

4.6.2

The PDPA prohibits the transfer of Personal Data by a Data User to a place
outside Malaysia without the consent of Data Subject. However, Personal Data
may be transferred to a country with sufficient data protection laws or for the
exercise of any functions conferred on any person by or under any law.

However, the Data User may still transfer Personal Data to a place outside
Malaysia if:-

(a) the Data Subject has granted Data Subject’s consent;

(b) the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the Data
User and the Data Subject;

(c) the transfer is necessary to perform a contract between a Data User and the
Third Party;

(d) the transfer is for legal proceedings or obtaining legal advice;

(e) the Data User have reasonable grounds to believe:-

@ the transfer is for the avoidance or mitigation of adverse action
against the Data Subject;

(ii) it is not practicable to obtain the consent in Writing of the Data
Subject to that transfer; and

(iii) the Data Subject would have given Data Subject’s consent if it was
practicable to obtain such consent,

(f) the Data User have taken reasonable precautions to ensure Personal Data
will not be Processed in amy manner which contravenes the PDPA;

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 31

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

4.6.3

4.6.4

4.6.5

4.6.6

(g) the transfer is necessary to protect the vital interests of the Data Subject;

(h) the transfer is necessary as being in public interest as determined by the
Minister; or

(i) the transfer is to a country specified by the Minister.

The transfer of Personal Data via removable media device and cloud computing
service is not permitted unless authorized in writing by an authorized officer of
the organization's highest management of Data User.

The transfer of Personal Data via removable media device and cloud computing
service should be recorded.

The transfer of Personal Data via cloud computing service must comply with the
principles of personal data protection in Malaysia and other countries that have
laws which is substantially similar personal data protection legislation or that
serves the same purposes as PDPA.

The transfer of Personal Data conventionally via mail, hand delivery, fax and so
on should be recorded.

4.7 Installation of CCTV

A471

4.7.2

4.7.3

CCTV recordings may be made for purposes of safety, security monitoring or
investigations.

The owner, operator and/or manager of the Data User’s premises installed with
CCTV must display a notice that is visible to all persons on, or outside the
premises, informing the public of the CCTV operation and the purposes of its
installation.

The notice shall:-
(a) be in English or in National Language;

(b} be visible and noticeable at all entry and exit points of the Data User’
premises, especially within the CCTV surveillance zones; and

(c) describe the purpose of recording and contact details of the person
responsible for CCTV recording.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 32

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

4.7.4

A sample of the notice appears below:-

In English:

Security Notice: These premises are under 24-hour CCTV camera surveillance.
Images are recorded for the purpose of crime prevention and public safety. For
further information please contact [+].

in National Language:

Notis Keselamatan: Premis ini adalah di bawah pengawasan 24 jam kamera
CCTV. Imej dirakam adalah bagi tujuan pencegahan jenayah dan keselamatan
awam, Untuk maklumat lanjut, sila hubungi [+].

4.8 Retention of Identification Documents

4.8.1

4.8.2

Before entering the Data User’s premises, a Data Subject may be required to
surrender Data Subject’s Official Identification Documents, which may be
photecopied or scanned and retained by the Data User.

If a Data Subject’s Official Identification Documents is to be retained, for the
duration of which the Data Subject is in the Data User’s premises, this must be
done in accordance with the National Registration Regulations 1990, the
Protected Areas and Protected Places Act 1959 and the Police Act 1967 and only

. an auxiliary policeman (polis bantuan) may do so.

4.9 Electricity Bill or Tax Invoice

4.9.1

Personal Data Disclosed on the electricity bill or tax invoice of the Data User
are:-

(a) name of the Data Subject;

(b) billing address of the account holder or the address of the account holder’s
premises;

(c} information relating to the consumption of the electricity;
(d) information relating to the billing amount; and

(e) information relating to the account and contract of the account holder.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 33

 

 

 

 
 

 

Persona! Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

492 The electricity bill or tax invoice will be issued to the following persons:-
(a) the account holder;
(b) the registered owner of the premises; or
(c) the tenant of the premises.

4.9.3 The electricity bill or tax invoice will be delivered to:-
(a) the address of the premises; or
(b) the address registered by the account holder.

4.94 Personal Data on the electricity bill or tax invoice may be Disclosed to the meter
reader, account holder, tenant of the premises, and to anybody who receives the
electricity bill or tax invoice at the premises or at the address registered by the
account holder.

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 34

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

5.1 Policies and Procedures

5.1.1 Itis recommended that Data User develop and implement policies and procedures
specifying what should be done by, what should not be done by and standards
expected of employees in their day-to-day work when dealing with Personal Data.

5.1.2 In developing and implementing policies and procedures, it is recommended that
Data User take the following points into consideration:-

(a) the policies and procedures are to be communicated to Data User’s
employees; and

(b) relevant Data User’s employees be provided with training in relation to the
policies and procedures, the PDPA, PDP Regulations and this Code.

5.2 Training and Awareness

5.2.1 Data User are required to implement appropriate training or awareness
mechanisms for relevant Data User’s employees to ensure that they understand
the relevance of the policies and procedures to their roles and responsibilities.

5.2.2. Awareness of relevant Personal Data policy and procedures should form part of
every Data User’s employee’s introduction to the company.

5.3. Control Measure

5.3.1 Data User are required to implement control measures to prevent the loss or
compromise of the Personal Data in situations where policies and procedures are
not followed by employees.

5.3.2 An effective control measure should cover:-
(a) an employee’s access rights to Personal Data; and

(b) the implementation of security measures to prevent Personal Data breaches
by employees.

5.3.3 In order to mitigate data security risks, Data User’s employees’ access to Personal
Data must be well controlled and employees must only be provided with access to
Personal Data on a need to basis. This includes but not limited to the following;

(a) To terminate the access rights of employees to Personal Data when the
employees leave the organisation, resign, retire, are terminated, laid off,
contract of employment have expired and/or when the employees are no
longer required to Process the Personal Data;

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 35

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

(b) To provide a user ID and password for employees who are authorized to
access Personal Data; and

(c) To revoke/deactivate the user ID and password immediately when
employees who are authorized to access personal data are no longer required
to handle Personai Data.

5.3.4 The Data User should control and limit the access rights of employees to Personal
Data for the purpose of collecting, processing and storing personal data.

5.3.5 The Data User must register all employees involved in the Processing of Personal
Data.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 36

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

6.1 Compliance

6.1.1

6.2. Monitoring

6.2.1

6.2.2

6.2.3

6.2.4

6.2.5

Data User must develop and implement appropriate compliance policies,
procedures and a framework to ensure compliance with the PDPA and this Code.

Data User will monitor its compliance with this Code and the PDPA by:-
(a) implementing an internal monitoring framework; and

(b) conducting self-audits.

Upon identifying shortcomings and weaknesses in the implementation of the
compliance framework, the Data User must ensure that appropriate remedial
action is taken as soon as reasonably possible and the Data User shail resolve
such shortcomings and weaknesses within 90 days from the date it was
discovered.

It is recommended that Data User:-

(a) implement a reporting system by key persons within the organization (for
example, the officer(s) responsible for Personal Data protection, heads of
business units and relevant key employees) to the senior management of
the Data User, to review and assess the status of implementation of the
PDPA and this Code to monitor issues, address shortcomings and track
progress; and

(b) conduct periodic self-audits to identify issues in relation to compliance
with the PDPA and this Code.

This Code shall be administered by representation of all the Data User in a forum.

The Data User should meet with each other and if necessary, together with the
PDP Commissioner at least once a year in order to discuss issues arising under
this Code and other related matters.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709} Page 37

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

6.3 Amendment

6.3.1

6.3.2

This Code may be amended, revised or updated to include all changes in the law.
AIl such amendments, revisions or updates will be notified to Data User, in
writing, by the PDP Commissioner.

Amendments to this Code may be made if:-

(a)

(b)

(©)

there are amendments to the PDPA or the PDP Regulations which will
affect the implementation of this Code,

the PDP Commissioner makes amendments on Data Subject’s own accord;
and/or

Data User make recommendations for amendments to the PDP
Commissioner based on the results of this Code review.

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 38

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

7.1 All Data User must comply with this Code.

7.2 Data User must develop and implement appropriate policies and procedures to
comply with this Code.

7.3. A Data Processing flowchart is set out in Appendix LI of this Code and it is to be used
as a guide and initial reference only as to whether consent is needed for Personal Data
to be Processed.

74 Any DAR or DCR must be submitted through the form as detailed in Appendix VI,
which form may be changed by the Data User with the approval of the PDP
Commissioner.

7.5 For any questions regarding the implementation of this Code by a Data User:-

(a) for TNB, please refer to Part 1.0 of Appendix. VII;
(b) for SESB, please refer to Part 2.0 of Appendix VH; and

{c) for SESCO, please refer to Part 3.0 of Appendix VII.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 39

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Appendix I
DEFINITIONS

ee

ae
2
SU Abe cae pane ee

es

ae =

OE 2
PE OI CI

PENCE ae ee ce

S Ses

z See
REBECA
oe a ye
5 aie

oe
ee

a)

x Eo,
Pe CE
ce

OF
PIGEON Ouse rey ee ee
ee

pee

Re US Ge

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

S
: Eo

coe fe

ee
ig

2
oa

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 41

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

ee
:

cS

ce Wil |

SO JOES: Hy ical y

ee

ee

oo

oe

ODER
EOP Gre

Ce ee

SAN

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 42

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

een

2
ee
2 b Snes LE ie CISER OF AS
RE OREN Sa z PEERS : ss EOE CONE
o m1 ‘otic s eee
Be : x ss

eS FRIES
ae eee

Pere oF Bee
ee

SO
helow eal ciol

pera SASS z |

ce
2 CS Ni

_
 .

s ata S|

eee

See eee

See

Be é
Oe
See

es See
Be
eee

ee a
peace es RI:
ee

S oe
Se
Bee i

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 43

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Ne |
oe

ae

ee

Ee
oe

SEE es z : Hs EEE CRs
RES i GEES
Pee - oe

CEEO
ieeh cana ae asecmes ee
i

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 44

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING FLOWCHART

 

 

Request for Information

 

 

 

v
General
Data

 

 

 

 

Appendix I

 

 

Yes

 

 

 

Consent?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
       
   
  
   

Do
conditions
under
Section 40

apply?

 

 

 

 

 

 

No

 

 

 

 

STOP- No

Processing allowed

 

 

 

Do conditions|

   

No

 

 

 

under Section
6(2)& (3)
apply?

    
  
 

 

 

Yes

 

 

 

 

y

 

 

Information CAN be
processed

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page 45

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personai Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Appendix I
WHAT SHOULD BE DONE UNDER THE PDPA

Each Data User must:-

1)
2)

3)

4)

5)

5)

1)

8)

9)

Comply with the PDPA and this Code.
Determine if consent is required before Processing Personal Data.

Obtain free, prior and informed consent from the Data Subject to Process Data Subject’s
Personal Data, if required.

Obtain written consent before Processing Sensitive Personal Data, such as race, political
opinion, religious belief, trade union membership, physical or mental health, sexual life or
criminal offences.

Data User should alert all Data Subject to the PDP Notice;

Data User should state clearly in all Data Subject documents, the purpose(s} for which
Personal Data is Collected and Processed;

Inform the Data Subject how Personal Data is Processed and by whom, in English or in
National Language.

Ensure that Personal Data is Processed through software and hardware that has been approved
and provided by the Data User.

Be aware that the PDPA covers all Personal Data in any form, except in the following
conditions:~

& data relating to deceased persons;
> data relating to a company, society, partnership, organization or any other legal entity; or

>» aggregated and/or anonymised data (no name basis) wherein the person is non-
identifiable.

10} Retain Personal Data only if and when necessary.

11} Ensure Personal Data is kept accurate and up-to-date.

12} Inform the Data Subject what, why, how and for how long, Data Subject’s Personal Data is

kept. .

13} Keep Personal Data confidential and protect the rights of the Data Subject under the PDPA.

14} Be careful about Disclosing Personal Data to Third Parties unless permitted by law or with

Written consent from the Data Subject.

15) Enter into a contract with confidentiality and non-disclosure clauses before Disclosing

Personal Data to Third Parties.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 46

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)
16) Permanentiy destroy hard copy and soft copy of Personal Data which is no longer required.

17) Maintain a database of all Personal Data retained and keep a record of all Personal Data
destroyed.

18) Establish a systematic system for the Collection of Personal Data to facilitate inspection by
the PDP Commissioner.

19) Process Personal Data on a “no name’ basis for statistical analysis.
20) Allow the Data Subject to update or correct Data Subject’s Personal Data.
21} Collect Personal Data only when it is necessary.

22) Specify which fields are necessary to be filled up, when Collecting Personal Data by
electronic transactions.

23) Allow the Data Subject fo use or not to use auto-completion facilities for forms or passwords
in the Data User’s Corporate Website.

24) Ensure their security system and technical protection is up-to-date.

25) Assess the risks of a security breach and its potential harm to the Data Subject and have a
management plan to deal with such security breaches.

26) Analyse the risk before contracting any online services company or any other counterparty
before Disclosing any Personal Data.

27) Ensure that employees only have access to Personal Data that he/ she has access to while
he/she is still an employee of the Data User.

28) Make all information on Personal Data policy and procedures available to Data User’s
employee in English and in National Language.

29) Be careful when using Corporate Email, telephone, facsimile, Instant Messaging or other
forms of communication for sending confidential or unencrypted Personal Data.

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 47

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Appendix IV
WHAT SHOULD NOT BE DONE UNDER THE PDPA

Each Data User must not:-

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

Disclose any Personal Data through the telephone, Internet, Instant Messaging, electronic
communication, in Writing or verbally unless consent is obtained from the Data Subject.

Transfer any Personal Data outside of Malaysia unless consent is obtained from the Data
Subject or if it is permissible under the law.

Allow open access to or leave unattended any hard copy or soft copy of Personal Data.

Use Personal Data for any purpose other than why it was Collected, without consent from the
Data Subject.

Ask a Data Subject to provide the Official Identification Documents or its particulars except
where necessary to provide products or services to the Data Subject.

Mislead the Data Subject about Data Subject’s choices or about how Data Subject’s Personal
Data will be used.

Collect Personal Data, especially Sensitive Personal Data, before a contract with the Data
Subject is formed.

Reveal password or user identification to unauthorized persons.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 48

 

 

 
 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice ~ Utilities Sector (Electricity)
Appendix V
LIST OF DISCLOSURES

(This Appendix is not intended to be exhaustive but may be amended from time to time as
approved by the PDP Commissioner)

 

NO. THIRD PARTIES

 

1. | Financial institutions, merchants, VISA International Services Association, MasterCard
International Incorporated and other card associations (in relation to credit cards issue to Data
Subject) for the purpose of payment of electricity bill or other services of the Data User

 

2. | Postal providers which provide postal services to the Data User

 

3. | Telecommunication providers which provides telecommunication services to the Data User

 

4, | Service providers which assist the Data User in processing the services that the Data User
requested

 

5. | Agents/ contractors/ consultants/ vendors/ external auditors/ counsellor/ data processor appointed
by the Data User

 

6. | Approved bodies where employees contributions are remitted:

e Social Security Organisation (SOCSO)

Battulmal

« Pusat Zakat

Lembaga Tabung Haji

Yayasan Pembangunan Ekonomi Islam Malaysia (YaPEIM)
Employees Provident Fund (EPF)

e Koperasi Wawasan Pekerja-Pekerja Berhad (KOWAJA)
Koperasi TNB

e Insurer/ Broker

 

 

7. | Close family members of Data Subject:

e Father

e Mother

e Husband
e Wife

e Siblings

 

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 49

 

 

 

 
 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

Federal Government or State Government requesting information from the Data User. The
following are the examples stated, as such it is including but not limited to as below:

Department of Islamic Development Malaysia

Department of Legal Aid Malaysia

Department of Statistics Malaysia

Director of Electricity Supply for Sarawak

Energy Commission of Malaysia

Immigration Department of Malaysia

Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia (matters relating to income tax)
Majlis Amanah Rakyat under the Ministry of Rural and Regional Development
Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission

Malaysia Department of Insolvency

Ministry of Domestic Trade, Co-operatives and Consumerism
Ministry of Finance Malaysia

Ministry of Health

Ministry of Human Resources Malaysia

Royal Malaysian Customs Department (matters relating to GST)
Royal Malaysia Police

Security Commission

Syariah Judiciary Department Malaysia

Jabatan Agama

Majlis Perbandaran

Majlis Daerah

Majlis Agama Islam Negeri

The National Higher Education Fund Corporation (PTPTN)

The National Film Development Corporation Malaysia (FINAS)

 

Wholly owned subsidiaries of the Data User

 

10.

Tenant and/or owner of the premises where the electricity is supplied (whom is not a registered
consumer)

 

Ht,

Panel lawyers/ legal advisors appointed by the Data User

 

12.

Panel doctors/ clinics/ hospitals/ pharmacists appointed by the Data User

 

13.

Meter reader/ disconnector of electricity supply outsourced by the Data User

 

 

14.

 

Any person connected to the enforcement or preservation on the Data User’s right under the
agreements which have been entered with the Data User

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 50

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15, | Company and organisation that assist the Data User in providing value services that the Data
Subject requested

16. | Any person notified and authorised by the Data Subject

17. | Any person intending to settle the outstanding amount in relation to the Data User services to the
Data Subject

18. | The relevant authority where the Data User has the obligation towards it as stipulated as follows:
e Director of Electricity Supply for Sarawak
e Energy Commission of Malaysia

19. | Where Data Users are required or authorised by any court order / tribunal or authority whether
government or quasi government with jurisdiction over the Data User

20. | Any person/ company appointed by the Data User to recover the outstanding debt of the Data User

21. | Data User advisers (including but not limited to accountants, auditors, lawyers or other
professional advisers) as authorised by Data Subject

22. | To the parties that Data User required or permitted by law

23. | To the parties that the Data User may transfer rights and obligations pursuant to the agreement
endorsed with the Data Subject

24. | Proclamation of sales

 

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 51

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)
Appendix VI
DATA ACCESS REQUEST / DATA CORRECTION REQUEST FORM
PERSONAL DATA ACCESS REQUEST FORM

For the purpose of this form, Data Subject/Relevant Person {as defined under the Personal Data
Protection Act 2010) must provide a copy of identification card (NRIC) or passport, authorisation
letter by the Data Subject and other relevant supporting document as required by us. Please note that,
we may not be able to process your request in the event of the personal data provided is inaccurate,
mcomplete, misleading or not up to date in the first place. A request to access personal data is subject
to a fee and also to requirements under Personal Data Protection Act 2010.

Full Name as per NRIC
New NRIC (Attach co
*House Phone

*Office Phone

Mobile phone

A: Particulars of Data Subject
Full Name as per NRIC

New NRIC (Attach co

B: Particulars of Relevant Person
Full Name as NRIC

New NRIC (Attach co

Address

*House Phone

*Office Phone

Mobile phone

*Non-mandatory information

 

ACCESS OF DATA SUBJECT’S PERSONAL DATA

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 52

 

 

 
 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Do you need a copy of the Personal Data? (Please tick (x) in the relevant box below)

 

 

 

a Yes
g (a) | Personal Data 10
0 (b) | Sensitive Personal 30

 

 

 

Data

 

 

 

o No

 

 

a (a) Personal Data
o (b) Sensitive Personal 5
Data

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Declaration by the Data Subject

hereby certify that the information given in this
form and any documents submitted are true and
accurate.

 

Declaration by the Relevant Person

hereby certify that the information given in this
form and any documents submitted are true and
accurate. I, hereby agreed that you may contact
the Data Subject to verify my identity.

 

 

Note: If GST is imposed on the Fee, the Data Subject will pay for all GST.

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page 53

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

PERSONAL DATA CORRECTION REQUEST FORM

For the purpose of this form, Data Subject/Relevant Person (as defined under the Personal Data
Protection Act 2010) must provide a copy of identification card (NRIC) or passport, authorization
letter by the Data Subject and other relevant supporting document as required by us. Please note that,
we may not be able to process your request in the event of the personal data provided is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up to date in the first place. A request to correct personal data is subject
to the requirements under Personal Data Protection Act 2010.

      

SECTION I: TO BE FILLED IN BY DATA SUBJEC
Full Name as per
NRIC

New NRIC

(Attach copy}
*House Phone
*Office Phone

Mobile Phone

 

 

 

 

 

A: Particulars of Data Subject

 

Full Name as per
NRIC

New NRIC
(Attach copy)

B : Particular of Relevant Person
Full Name as per
NRIC

New NRIC
(Attach copy)
Address

 

 

 

 

 

 

*House Phone
*Office Phone
Mobile Phone
*Non-mandatory information

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CORRECTION OF DATA SUBJECT’S PERSONAL DATA

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709) Page 54

 

 

 
 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

 

 

Declaration by the Data Subject

hereby certify that the information given in this
form and any documents submitted are true
and accurate.

 

Declaration by the Relevant Person

hereby certify that the information given in this
form and any documents submitted are true and
accurate. I, hereby agreed that you may contact the
Data Subject to verify my identity.

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page 55

 

 

 

 
 

 

Personal Data Protection Code of Practice - Utilities Sector (Electricity)

Appendix VII

IMPORTANT CONTACT DETAILS

1.0 Tenaga Nasional Berhad (TNB)

Address
Telephone

Fax
Corporate
Email
Corporate
Website

Tenaga Nasional Berhad, No 129, Jalan Bangsar, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur

603 2296 5566 (Headquarters) (8am to 5.15pm on business days)
1-300-88-5454 (8am to 11pm daily)

03-2283 3686

tnbcareline@tnb.com.my

www.tnb.com.my

2.0 Sabah Electricity Sdn. Bhd. (SESB)

Address
Telephone

Fax
Corporate
Email
Corporate
Website

Wisma SESB, Jalan Tunku Abdul Rahman, 88673 Kota Kinabalu,
Sabah, Malaysia.

088-515000 (8am to 5.15pm on business days)

15454 (Careline)

6 088-282314

talk2us(@sesb.com.my

www.sesb.com.my

3.0 Syarikat SESCO Berhad (SESCO)

Address
Careline

Fax

Corporate
Email

Corporate
Website

Wisma SESCO, Jalan Bako, 93763 Petra Jaya, Kuching.
1300-88-3111 (Customer Care Centre)

6 082-313588 (Technical and Billing enquiries)

6 082-341063 (Corporate Information)
customercare@sarawakenergy.com.my (Technical and Billing
enquiries)

corpcomm@sarawakenergy.com.my (Corporate Information)
http:/Awww.sarawakenergy.com.my

 

Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (Act 709)

Page 56

 

 

 
