PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.07

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION 586.07
PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR) REGULATIONS
9th January, 2015
LEGAL NOTICE 19 of 2015, as amended by Acts XXVII of 2016 and II
of 2020.

1.
The title of these regulations is the Processing of Personal
Data (Education Sector) Regulations.
2. (1) In these regulations unless the context determines
otherwise requires:

Citation.

"Act" means the Data Protection Act;
"Corporation" means Jobsplus established under the
Employment and Training Services Act;

Cap. 586.

"data controller" means education authorities, educational
institutions, examination bodies and the Corporation;
"education authorities" means the Directorates constituted in
terms of Part II of the Education Act, as well as the Malta Further
and Higher Education Authority established in terms the Further and
Higher Education Act;

Interpretation.
Amended by:
XXVII. 2016.6;
II.2020.28.

Cap. 452.

Cap. 605.
Cap. 607

"educational institutions" means any licensed school or other
institution or entity offering educational services, whether at a preprimary (kindergarten), primary, secondary, post-secondary or
tertiary level and also includes further and higher educational
institutions, institutions offering formal and non-formal learning,
and vocational education;
"examination bodies" means any entity other than educational
institutions authorised to conduct national assessments;
"pseudonymous data" means personal data that can no longer be
attributed in any manner to a specific data subject without the use
of any other additional information to be kept separately to ensure
non-attribution;
"student" means any data subject registered and, or attending an
education institution and, or registered with an examination body;
"student welfare data" means records related to the welfare and
social behaviour of the student including court orders regarding
custody of minors, information compiled by child protection
services including guidance and counselling, as well as any other
information obtained from the student, parent, legal guardian, law
enforcement officers or other support agencies.
(2) The definitions contained in article 2 of the Act shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1), apply to these
regulations.
3.
For the purposes of these regulations, a notification for
p r i o r c h e c k i n g s h a l l b e m a d e t o t h e C o m m i s s i o n e r, w h e r e

Prior checking.

1

2

[ S.L.586.07

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR)

applicable in terms of article 34 of the Act, including in the
following cases:
(a) processing operations carried out on the basis of the
best interest of the student;
(b) processing operations carried out in the public interest;
(c) processing operations carried out for reconciliation
purposes in terms of regulation 4(4)(a);
(d) processing operations
regulation 4(8).
Processing by
education
authorities.
Amended by:
II.2020.28.
Cap. 605.

out

in

terms

of

4. (1) Education authorities may process personal data in
relation to students and, where specifically required in the best
interest of the students, personal data of parents and legal guardians
may also be processed to carry out their functions as provided
under the Education Act.
(2)

Cap. 605.

carried

(a) In the course of executing their functions subject to
sub-regulation (1), education authorities may, from
time to time, and by means of a written request, require
educational institutions to furnish, in such manner as
m a y b e re qu e s te d an d w i th i n a r e a s o na bl e t im e ,
personal data in relation to students attending such
educational institutions, and their parents or legal
guardians.

(b) Sensitive personal data shall be requested only with
the explicit consent of the parent or legal guardian.
(3) Where data regarding educational attainment and ability in
relation to the student held by educational institutions is required
by the educational authorities in order to fulfil their functions as
laid down in the Education Act, educational institutions shall
substitute identifiable data with pseudonymous data, provided that
any follow-up action is to be carried out by the educational
institutions which transmitted the data as instructed by the
education authorities.
(4) In monitoring the participation of students in national
assessments, where there are discrepancies between the education
authorities and examination bodies in relation to students sitting for
national assessments, education authorities may request
examination bodies to provide the data, provided that:
(a) such personal data are only used for reconciliation
purposes;
(b) no results associated to identifiable students are
requested, and

Cap. 605.

(c) all personal identifiable data are rendered anonymous,
deleted or destroyed, immediately after the
reconciliation exercise is conducted.
(5) Subject to the provisions of regulation 8, education
authorities may process personal data for research and statistics
purposes to perform tasks in the public interest and to exercise their
functions in accordance with the Education Act.

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.07

(6) In implementing targeted policies and, or initiatives to
assist students who do not achieve the required levels in national
assessments for accession into further and higher education, or for
an active participation in employment opportunities, education
authorities may instruct examination bodies and, or educational
institutions to forward any communication issued by the education
authorities to inform students who are eligible to benefit from such
targeted policies and, or initiatives. Where such instructions cannot
be met by the examination bodies and, or educational institutions,
personal data of students eligible to be addressed by the targeted
policies and, or initiatives concerned shall be forwarded to the
education authorities in order to enable them to communicate
directly with the students concerned, provided that only the
ide ntifiable details of student s o pti ng t o ma k e u s e o f such
specialised services will be processed by the education authorities
in the context of the targeted policy and, or initiative.
(7) Pursuant to sub-regulation (6), all personal identifiable data
are to be rendered anonymous, deleted or destroyed, after the
specialised services in line with the targeted policies and, or
initiatives concerned are delivered, unless specific consent is
obtained from the students themselves where applicable, or from
their parents or legal guardians.
(8) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-regulations (3)
and (6), and regulation 8, whenever education authorities are
involved in national initiatives with regards to employment
opportunities, and, or the alignment of jobs with the studies or
qualifications achieved, the education authorities may require
examination bodies and, or educational institutions to furnish them
with such data deemed necessary for the national initiative,
provided that:
(a) identifiable data are only requested if strictly required
to take the necessary measures in the interest of the
students in the implementation of such national
initiatives;
(b) only data of students over compulsory school age may
be requested;
(c) identifiable data of students who eventually do not
participate in such national initiatives are deleted,
destroyed, or rendered anonymous.
5. (1) Educational institutions may process personal data in
relation to students, parents and legal guardians for administration
purposes and for the daily operations and efficient running of such
institutions for the purpose of providing their students with the
necessary educational services as required under the Education
Act.
(2) Personal data in relation to students may also be processed
for the following purposes:
(a) academic progress monitoring which includes
performance data, examination and, or assessment
results associated with the students;

Processing by
educational
institutions.
Amended by:
II.2020.28.
Cap. 605.

3

4

[ S.L.586.07

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR)
(b) organisation of functions and, or activities which may
form part of curricular and extra-curricular
requirements, provided that where the processing is
related to informal activities the consent is obtained
from the students themselves if applicable, or from
their parents or legal guardians.

(3) Medical data in relation to the students attending the
institutions, as provided by medical professionals and, or by the
parents or legal guardians, or by the students themselves where
applicable, may also be processed by the educational institutions in
the best interest of their students, and provided that:
(a) such data are held in separate distinctive files in a
secure manner; and
(b) if the students are following compulsory schooling,
such data may be forwarded in the best interest of the
students, to another educational institution to which
students are transferred; and
(c) such data are destroyed once the students stop
attending the institution concerned.
(4) Student welfare data may also be processed by the
educational institutions in the best interest of their students, and
provided that:
(a) such data are held in separate distinctive files in a
secure manner; and
(b) if the students are within compulsory schooling, such
data may be forwarded in the best interest of the
students, to another educational institution where
students are transferred to; and
(c) such data are destroyed once the students stop
attending the institution concerned.
(5) Educational institutions may process visual images
provided that consent is obtained from the students themselves if
applicable, or from the parents or legal guardians.
(6) Educational institutions may keep records of their students
for historic purposes provided that no sensitive data and student
welfare data are retained for such purposes.
(7) Subject to the provisions of regulation 8, educational
institutions may process personal data for research and statistics
purposes to perform tasks which are required by the education
authorities in terms of regulation 4, or in the legitimate interest of
the educational institution to provide the necessary education to
their students.
(8) Consent required under this regulation shall be obtained
from the students themselves if applicable, or from their parents or
legal guardians, prior to disclosure of personal data to third parties
unless such third parties are any of the following:
(a) education authorities processing personal data in terms
of regulation 4;

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.07

5

(b) another educational institution where a student is
transferred to;
(c) examination bodies as part of the examinations process
and, or national assessments;
(d) health authorities in the fulfilment of their functions
under the Public Health Act;

Cap. 465.

(e) hospitals, clinics and other medical professionals
where students need medical attention;
(f)

the Police in cases of criminal investigations;

(g) social workers or support agencies or authorities
where there is suspicion or where it is alleged that the
welfare of the student is not being protected;
(h) the Corporation in accordance with the Employment
and Training Services Act in terms of regulation 4 of
these regulations;
(i) any court, as required in judicial proceedings.
(9) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 8, the
Corporation, in fu lfilment of its st atut ory functio ns and in
accordance with the Employment and Training Services Act, may
request educational institutions to be provided with personal data
of students pursuing studies in such institutions. For this purpose,
educational institutions shall provide such data in their possession
provided that students whose data are being forwarded shall have
attained the age of fourteen years at the time of the request.
6. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of article 26 of the
Act, access to personal data in relation to students and parents or
legal guardians shall be restricted to those employees who by virtue
of their roles and responsibilities are required to process such data
and:
(a) are subject to the Professional Secrecy Act; or

Cap. 452.

Cap. 452.

Recipients of data.

Cap. 377.

(b) form part of a regulated profession, and, or have taken
an oath of confidentiality for the carrying out of their
duties.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, employees who "form
part of a regulated profession" shall also be deemed to include any
person acting under the personal direction and supervision of such
regulated professional.
7. (1) For the purposes of these regulations any student who
has attained the age of sixteen years shall be eligible to give
consent as required by these regulations, and to exercise all the
rights under the Act.
(2) All consents shall be made in writing or by a clear
indication of opting in where consent is required to be given
through on-line applications. Any consent given by the student
where applicable or by any parent or legal guardian, may be
withdrawn in writing, and the data controller shall remove such
consent and stop such processing operation for which the consent
has been withdrawn and delete or destroy the data concerned.

Consent.

6

[ S.L.586.07

Processing for
research and
statistics purposes.

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(EDUCATION SECTOR)

8. (1) When processing of personal data is required for
research and statistics purposes, all identifiable data shall be
rendered anonymous, unless in the case of research, the
identification of the data subject is required to fulfil the purposes of
such research.
(2) Within the limits of these regulations, where, for the
purposes of implementing specific targeted policies, the research
being conducted would require the identification details of
students, data controllers shall process such data by replacing
personal identification data with pseudonymous data, and
eventually limiting the re-identification of students only to those
cases which specifically fall within the parameters of the target
policy:
Provided that the process replacing the identification
details with pseudonymous data is carried out by the data controller
originally in possession of the identifiable details:
Provided further that where identification is required in
terms of the preceding sub-regulations, such data shall not be used
for any decision concerning the data subject.
(3) Where the research is required by other entities, not being
t h e e d u c a ti o n a u t h o r i ti e s i n te r m s o f r e gu l a ti o n 2 , an d t he
identification details of students are required for the purposes of
the research in question, specific consent shall be obtained from the
students themselves where applicable or from the parents or legal
guardians concerned.
(4) When, for the purposes of the preceding sub-regulations,
pseudonymous data are processed, data controllers shall ensure
that:
(a) personal data are not processed for any other purpose
that is incompatible with the specific purpose of the
targeted policy and, or initiative, and in particular that
it is not processed for the purpose of supporting
measures or decisions with respect to the student,
either specifically related to the targeted policy and, or
initiative or otherwise;
(b) data enabling the attribution of information to an
identified or identifiable data subject are kept
separately from the other data;
(c) adequate organisational and technical safeguards are in
place to protect the personal data against any unlawful
forms of processing;
(d) personal data shall not be retained for a period which
is longer than necessary and all identifiable details
shall be rendered anonymous, deleted, or destroyed,
following the completion of the policy and, or
initiative implementation.
(5) Where the research involves the processing of sensitive
personal data, such processing shall be approved by the
Information and Data Protection Commissioner in terms of article
16(2)(b) of the Act.

