[ CAP. 586.

DATA PROTECTION

CHAPTER 586
DATA PROTECTION ACT
AN ACT to repeal and to replace the Data Protection Act, Cap. 440.
28th May, 2018
ACT XX of 2018.

ARRANGEMENT OF THE ACT

Part I
Part II
Part III
Part IV
Part V
Part VI
Part VII
Part VIII

Preliminary
Applicability
Restrictions, Consultation and Prior Authorization
Transborder data transfers
The Information and Data Protection Commissioner
Administrative fines and penalties
Appeals
General provisions

First Schedule Second Schedule -

Oath of Office
Form A

Articles
1-3
4
5-9
10
11 - 19
20 - 23
24 - 31
32 - 34

1

2

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

PART I
Preliminary
Short title.
Purpose of the Act.

Interpretation.

1.

The short title of this Act is the Data Protection Act.

2.
This Act implements and further specifies the relevant
provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General
Data Protection Regulation).
3.

(1)

In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

"Commissioner" means the Information and Data Protection
Commissioner appointed under article 11 and includes any officer or
employee of the Commissioner authorised by him in that behalf;

Cap. 258.

"identity document" means a legally valid identity document
as provided in the Identity Card and other Identity Documents Act;
"Minister" means the Minister responsible for data protection;
"official statistics" shall mean information collected, analysed
and produced for the benefit of the society to characterize collective
phenomena in a considered population and produced by the National
Statistics Office as provided for by law, or by other national
authorities as designated by Eurostat following recommendation by
the National Statistics Office;
"the Regulation" means Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC;
"Tribunal" means the Information and Data Protection Appeals
Tribunal established under article 24.
(2) The definitions in Article 4 of the Regulation shall apply to
this Act.
PART II
Applicability

Scope.

4.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-article (2), the
provisions of this Act shall apply to the processing of personal data,
wholly or partly, by automated means and to such processing other
than by automated means where such personal data forms part of a
filing system or is intended to form part of a filing system:

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

Provided that this Act shall not apply to the processing
of personal data:
(a)
in the course of an activity which falls outside
the scope of Union law;
(b)
by the Government of Malta when carrying out
activities which fall within the scope of Chapter 2 of Title V of
the Treaty on European Union;
(c)
by a natural person in the course of a purely
personal or household activity; or
(d)
by competent authorities for the purposes of the
prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the
safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public
security:
Provided further that the Minister may by regulations,
after consultation with the Commissioner and with the concurrence of
the Minister responsible for the Police, make provisions on the
processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes
of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the
safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security.
(2)

This Act shall apply to:

(a)
the processing of personal data in the context of
the activities of an establishment of a controller or a processor
in Malta or in a Maltese Embassy or High Commission abroad,
regardless of whether the processing takes place in Malta or
not;
(b)
the processing of personal data of data subjects
who are in Malta by a controller or processor not established in
the European Union, where the processing activities are
related to:
(i)
the offering of goods or services,
irrespective of whether a payment of the data subject is
required, to such data subjects in Malta; or
(ii) the monitoring of their behaviour in so
far as their behaviour takes place within Malta;
(c)
the processing of personal data by a controller
not established in the Union but in a place where the laws of
Malta apply by virtue of public international law.

3

4

[ CAP. 586.

DATA PROTECTION
PART III
Restrictions, Consultation and Prior Authorisation

Restrictions.

5.
The Minister may, after consultation with the
Commissioner and with the concurrence of the Minister responsible for
justice, by regulations provide for a restriction to the obligations to
which the data controller or processor is subject pursuant to Article 23
of the Regulation.

Safeguards and
derogations
relating to
processing for
archiving purposes
in the public
interest, scientific
or historical
research purposes
or statistical
purposes.

6.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-article (4),
controllers and processors may derogate from the provisions of
Articles 15, 16, 18 and 21 of the Regulation for the processing of
personal data for scientific or historical research purposes or official
statistics in so far as the exercise of the rights set out in those Articles:
(a)
is likely to render impossible or seriously impair
the achievement of those purposes; and
(b)
the data controller reasonably believes that such
derogations are necessary for the fulfilment of those purposes.
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-article (4), controllers
and processors may derogate from the provisions of Articles 15, 16,
18, 19, 20 and 21 of the Regulation for the processing of personal
data for archiving purposes in the public interest in so far as the
exercise of the rights set out in those Articles:
(a)
is likely to render impossible or seriously impair
the achievement of those purposes; and
(b)
the controller reasonably believes that such
derogations are necessary for the fulfilment of those purposes.
(3) Where data processing referred to in sub-articles (1) and
(2) serves at the same time another purpose, the derogations shall
apply only to processing for the purposes referred to in those subarticles.
(4) Processing for the purposes referred to in sub-articles (1)
and (2) shall be subject to appropriate safeguards for the rights and
freedoms of the data subject, including pseudonymisation and other
technical and organisational measures to ensure respect for the
principle of data minimisation:
Provided that, where such purposes can be fulfilled by
processing which does not permit, or no longer permits, the
identification of data subjects, those purposes shall be fulfilled in that
manner.

Consultation and
prior authorisation.

7.
A controller shall consult with, and obtain prior
authorisation from, the Commissioner where the controller intends to

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

5

process in the public interest:
(a)
genetic data, biometric data or data concerning
health for statistical or research purposes; or
(b)
special categories of data in relation to the
management of social care services and systems, including for
the purposes of quality control, management information and
the general national supervision and monitoring of such
services and systems:
Provided that, where genetic data, biometric data or data
concerning health are required to be processed for research purposes,
the Commissioner shall consult a research ethics committee or of an
institution recognised by the Commissioner for the purposes of this
article.
8.
An identity document shall only be processed when such
processing is clearly justified having regard to the purpose of the
processing and (a)

the importance of a secure identification; or

(b)

any other valid reason as may be provided by

Processing of an
identity document.

law:
Provided that the national identity number or any other
identifier of general application shall be used only under appropriate
safeguards for the rights and freedoms of the data subject pursuant to
the Regulation.
9.
(1)
Personal data processed for the purpose of
exercising the right to freedom of expression and information,
including processing for journalistic purposes or for the purposes of
academic, artistic or literary expression, shall be exempt from
compliance with the provisions of the Regulation specified in subarticle (2) where, having regard to the importance of the right of
freedom of expression and information in a democratic society,
compliance with any of the provisions as specified in sub-article (2)
would be incompatible with such processing purposes:
Provided that when reconciling the right to the
protection of personal data with the right to freedom of expression
and information, the controller shall ensure that the processing is
proportionate, necessary and justified for reasons of substantial
public interest.
(2) For the purposes of the provisions of sub-article (1), the
provisions of the following chapters of the Regulation may be
exempted or derogated therefrom pursuant to Article 85(2) of the said
Regulation:

Freedom of
expression and
information.

6

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

(a)

Chapter II (Principles):

(i)
Article 5(1)(a) to (e) (principles relating
to processing);
(ii)

Article 6 (lawfulness);

(iii)

Article 7 (conditions for consent);

(iv) Article 10 (data relating to criminal
convictions, etc);
(v)
Article 11(2) (processing not requiring
identification);
(b)

Chapter III (rights of the data subject):

(i)
Article 13(1) to (3) (personal data
collected from data subject: information to be provided);
(ii) Article 14(1) to (4) (personal data
collected other than from data subject);
(iii) Article 15(1) to (3) (access to data and
safeguards for third country transfers);
(iv)

Article 17(1) and (2) (right to erasure);

(v)
Article 18(1)(a), (b) and (d) (restriction
of processing);
(vi)
portability);

Article 20(1) and (2) (right to data

(vii) Article 21(1) (objections to processing);
(c)

Chapter IV (controller and processor):

(i)
by default);

Article 25 (data protection by design and

(ii) Article 27 (representatives of controllers
or processors not established in the Union);
(iii)
activities);

Article

30

(records

of

processing

(iv) Article 33 (notification of personal data
breach to supervisory authority);
(v)
Article 34 (communication of personal
data breach to the data subject);

DATA PROTECTION
(vi)

[ CAP. 586.

Article 42 (certification);

(vii) Article 43 (certification bodies);
(d)

Chapter VII (co-operation and consistency):
(i)

Articles 60 to 62 (co-operation);

(ii)

Articles 63 to 67 (consistency).
PART IV

Transborder Data Transfers
10. In the absence of an adequacy decision pursuant to
Article 45(3) of the Regulation, the Minister may, following
consultation with the Commissioner, by regulations set limits to the
transfer of specific categories of personal data to a third country or an
international organisation for important reasons of public interest.

Limits to
transborder data
transfers.

PART V
The Information and Data Protection Commissioner
11. (1)
There shall be an Information and Data
Protection Commissioner, who shall be appointed by the Prime
Minister after he has consulted with the Leader of the Opposition, to
perform the duties of supervisory authority for the purposes of
Chapter VI of the Regulation.
(2) The Commissioner shall be responsible for monitoring
and enforcing the application of the provisions of this Act and the
Regulation, in order to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms
of natural persons in relation to processing of personal data and to
facilitate the free flow of personal data between Malta and any other
Member State.
(3) A person shall not be qualified to hold office as
Commissioner if he:
(a)
is a Minister, Parliamentary Secretary, or a
Member of the House of Representatives; or
(b)

is a judge or magistrate of the courts of justice;

(c)

is an officer in the public service; or

(d)

is a member of a local council; or

or

(e)
has a financial or other interest in any enterprise
or activity which is likely to affect the discharge of his
functions as a Commissioner.

Information and
Data Protection
Commissioner.

7

8

[ CAP. 586.

DATA PROTECTION

(4) The Information and Data Protection Commissioner
shall have the qualifications, experience and skills, in particular in the
area of the protection of personal data, required to perform his duties
and exercise his powers in accordance with the provisions of Article
53(2) of the Regulation.
Independence of
functions.

12. (1)
In the exercise of his tasks and powers in
accordance with this Act and the Regulation, the Commissioner shall
act with complete independence and shall be free from external
influence, whether direct or indirect, and shall neither seek nor take
instructions or direction from any person or entity.
(2) It shall not be lawful for the Commissioner to carry out
any other profession, business or trade or to hold any other office of
profit whatsoever, even though of a temporary nature, with the
exception of any temporary judicial office on any international court
or tribunal or any international adjudicating body, and the office of
examiner at a University and the Malta College of Arts, Science and
Technology.
(3) Any officers or employees of the Commissioner shall be
chosen by the Commissioner and shall be subject to his exclusive
direction.

Legal personality
and representation
of the
Commissioner.

13. (1)
The Commissioner shall have a separate and
distinct legal personality and shall be capable of entering into
contracts, of acquiring, holding and disposing of any kind of property
for the purposes of his tasks and powers, of suing and being sued, and
of doing all such things and entering into all such transactions as are
incidental or conducive to the effective performance of his tasks and
exercise of his powers under this Act and the Regulation.
(2) Any document purporting to be an instrument made or
issued by the Commissioner and signed by him shall be received in
evidence and shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to be an
instrument made or issued by the Commissioner.

Tenure of office.

14. (1)
The Commissioner shall hold office for a term of
five years and shall be eligible for reappointment on the expiration of
his term of office.
(2) The Commissioner shall not be removed from his office
except by the Prime Minister upon an address of the House of
Representatives supported by the votes of not less than two-thirds of
all the members thereof and praying for such removal on the ground
of proved inability to perform the duties of his office (whether arising
from infirmity of body or mind or any other cause) or proved
misbehaviour.
(3) The Commissioner shall nominate a person from his
office to act as Deputy Commissioner and who shall have the

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

qualifications, experience and skills, in particular in the area of the
protection of personal data.
(4) If the Commissioner resigns, if his office is otherwise
vacant, if for any reason he is unable to perform the duties of his
office, or for any other temporary purpose where the Commissioner
considers it necessary not to carry out any of his duties that were he a
judge of the superior courts he would abstain, the Deputy
Commissioner shall perform the Commissioner’s duties and exercise
his powers in accordance with the provisions of Article 53(2) of the
Regulation.
15. (1)
The Commissioner shall perform the duties
assigned to him under this Act and the Regulation and shall carry out
the functions assigned to him under the Freedom of Information Act
and any other law.

Functions and
duties of the
Commissioner.
Cap. 496.

(2) The Commissioner shall have the power to institute civil
judicial proceedings in cases where the provisions of this Act or the
Regulation have been or are about to be violated.
(3) The Commissioner may seek the advice of, and may
consult with, any other competent authority in the exercise of his
functions under this Act and the Regulation.
16. (1)
In the exercise of the investigative powers
pursuant to Article 58 of the Regulation, or any other law, the
Commissioner may request the assistance of the executive police in
order to enter and search any premises.

Commissioner’s
right of access to
information.

(2) In the event of joint operations with supervisory
authorities of one or more other Member States the Commissioner
may, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of Article
63 of the Regulation, confer powers, including investigative powers,
on the seconding supervisory authority’s members or staff:
Provided that such powers are exercised under the
guidance and in the presence of the Commissioner.
17. (1)
The Commissioner and any officer and
employee of the Commissioner shall, before assuming their duties,
take the oath of office set out in the First Schedule, to carry out their
duties with equity and impartiality and in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the Regulation, and shall be subject to the
provisions of the Official Secrets Act, Professional Secrecy Act and
the Code of Ethics applicable to public officers.
(2)
General.

The oath of office shall be taken before the Attorney

Oath of office.







Cap. 50.
Cap. 377.

9

10

[ CAP. 586.

Financial
provisions.

Cap. 496.

DATA PROTECTION

18. (1)
The financial resources required by the
Commissioner for the effective performance of his tasks and exercise
of his powers under this Act and the Regulation, under the Freedom
of Information Act and under any other law, as may be fixed by the
House of Representatives in accordance with this article, shall be a
charge on the Consolidated Fund without the need of any further
appropriation other than this Act.
(2) Where during the course of any financial year the sum
fixed by the House of Representatives is, in the opinion of the
Commissioner, insufficient to enable him to efficiently and
effectively fulfil his functions, the Commissioner shall prepare
supplementary estimates for consideration by the House of
Representatives.
(3) The Commissioner shall cause to be prepared in every
financial year, and shall not later than six months after the end of
each such year adopt, estimates of the income and expenditure of the
Commissioner for the next following financial year.
(4) A copy of the estimates shall, upon their adoption by the
Commissioner, be sent forthwith to the Minister and to the Minister
responsible for finance.
(5) The Minister shall at the earliest opportunity, and not
later than six weeks after he has received a copy of the estimates from
the Commissioner, approve the same with or without amendment
after consultation with the Minister responsible for finance.

Accounts and
audit.

Cap. 496.

19. (1)
The Commissioner shall cause to be kept proper
accounts and other records in respect of his operations under this Act,
the Regulation and under the Freedom of Information Act and any
other law, and shall cause to be prepared a statement of accounts in
respect of each financial year.
(2) The accounts of the Commissioner shall be audited by
an auditor or auditors to be appointed by the Commissioner:
Provided that the Minister responsible for finance may,
after consultation with the Minister, require the books or the accounts
of the Commissioner to be audited or examined by the Auditor
General who shall for the purpose have the power to carry out such
physical checking and other certifications as he may deem necessary.
(3) After the end of each financial year, and not later than
the date on which the estimates of the Commissioner are forwarded to
the Minister under article 18(4), the Commissioner shall cause a copy
of the statement of account duly audited to be transmitted to the
Minister and to the Minister responsible for finance together with a
copy of any report made by the auditors on that statement or on the
accounts of the Commissioner.

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

(4) The Minister shall, at the earliest opportunity and not
later than eight weeks after he has received a copy of every such
statement and report, or if at any time during that period the House of
Representatives is not in session, within eight weeks from the
beginning of the next following session, cause every such statement
and report to be laid on the Table of the House of Representatives.
(5) The Commissioner shall, by not later than six months
after the end of each financial year, make and transmit to the Minister
and to the Minister responsible for finance a report dealing generally
with the activities of the Commissioner during the financial year and
containing such information relating to the proceedings and policy of
the Commissioner as either of the said Ministers may from time to
time require. The Minister shall, at the earliest opportunity and not
later than eight weeks after he has received a copy of every such
report, or if at any time during that period the House of
Representatives is not in session, within eight weeks from the
beginning of the next following session, cause a copy of every such
report to be laid on the Table of the House of Representatives.
PART VI
Administrative Fines and Penalties
20. (1)
Where the Commissioner imposes an
administrative fine, he shall by order in writing require the controller
or processor, as the case may be, to pay such administrative fine,
which shall be due to the Commissioner as a civil debt:

Administrative
fines.

Provided that such order shall be subject to the appeal
procedure as established under article 26.
(2) In the absence of an appeal, the decision of the
Commissioner shall become final and shall constitute an executive
title for the purposes of Title VII of the Code of Organization and
Civil Procedure as if the decision had been ordered by a judgement of
a court of civil jurisdiction.
(3) Where a notice imposing an administrative fine is served
on a person and (a)
such person fails to appeal within such time as
an appeal may be entered under article 26, and fails to pay the
fine so imposed; or
(b)
such person appeals within such time to the
Tribunal and the appeal is withdrawn or the Tribunal confirms
the fine in the amount fixed by the Commissioner or in an
amount reduced by it and no further appeal is filed with the
Court of Appeal, or if an appeal is filed with the Court of
Appeal and such Court either confirms the decision taken or





Cap. 12.

11

12

[ CAP. 586.

DATA PROTECTION
decides that a penalty is due in another amount, or the imposed
penalty is not paid within fifteen days from the date of the
decision or the withdrawal of the appeal, or the date when the
Tribunal or the Court of Appeal confirms or varies the penalty
as aforesaid,

the Commissioner shall be entitled to take civil action to recover the
amount due.
Administrative
fines on public
authorities or
bodies.

21. The Commissioner may, after giving due regard to the
circumstances of the case pursuant to Article 83(2) of the Regulation,
impose an administrative fine on a public authority or body:
Provided that such a fine shall not exceed twenty-five
thousand euro (€25,000) for each violation and, additionally, the
Commissioner may impose a daily fine payment of twenty-five euro
(€25) for each day during which such violation persists, which fine
shall be determined and imposed by the Commissioner in accordance
with the procedure under article 26 for an infringement of Article
83(4) of the Regulation:
Provided further that such a fine shall not exceed fifty
thousand euro (€50,000) for each violation and, additionally, the
Commissioner may impose a daily fine payment of fifty euro (€50)
for each day during which such violation persists, which fine shall be
determined and imposed by the Commissioner, in accordance with
the procedure stipulated under article 26 for an infringement of
Articles 83(5) or 83(6) of the Regulation.

Offences.

22. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 21 and
Article 83 of the Regulation, any person who (a)
knowingly provides false information to the
Commissioner when so requested by the Commissioner
pursuant to his investigative powers under Article 58 of the
Regulation, or any other law; or
(b)
does not comply with any lawful request
pursuant to an investigation by the Commissioner,
shall be guilty of an offence against this article and shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine (multa) of not less than one thousand,
two hundred and fifty euro (€1,250) and not more than fifty thousand
euro (€50,000) or to imprisonment for six months or to both such fine
(multa) and imprisonment:
Provided that no proceedings shall be instituted in
respect of any offence under this article except where the
Commissioner provides information to any officer of the Executive
Police.

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

23. (1)
Where the Commissioner exercises his powers
pursuant to the Regulation, or any other law, the decision of the
Commissioner shall forthwith be served on the person to whom the
decision is addressed, which decision shall be served either
personally, by registered post to the person’s last known business or
private address, or by electronic means that provide a reliable record
of when service took place.

13

Methods of
service.

(2) In the case of service by electronic means, the decision
shall be deemed to have been served upon each person to whom the
decision is addressed when the Commissioner has received:
(a)
an electronic receipt automatically generated by
the e-mail server when the communication is read;
(b)
a written confirmation by return electronic mail
from the person to whom the decision is addressed; or
(c)
a verbal confirmation from the person to whom
the decision is addressed that the electronic mail was received.
(3) If service is not effected within a week of issuing the
decision, because the person to whom the decision refers could not be
found or for any other reason attributable to the person to whom the
decision is addressed, the Commissioner shall publish a notice in the
Gazette and in one or more daily newspapers, stating that a decision
has been taken in respect of the person to whom the decision is
addressed and inviting him to collect the decision from the
Commissioner’s office. In any such case, service shall be deemed to
have been effected on the third day after the date of publication of the
last notice.
PART VII
Appeals
24. (1)
There shall be a tribunal to be known as the
Information and Data Protection Appeals Tribunal, referred to in this
Act as ''the Tribunal'', having the functions and powers assigned to it
by this Act or by any other law.
(2) The Tribunal shall consist of a chairperson and two other
members appointed by the Minister.
(3) The chairperson shall be an advocate with a minimum of
twelve years legal experience and shall have the qualifications,
experience and skills, in particular in the area of the protection of
personal data, required to fulfil his role.
(4) The two other members mentioned in sub-article (2)
shall be persons who, in the opinion of the Minister, equally represent
the interests of data subjects on the one hand, and of data controllers

Information and
Data Protection
Appeals Tribunal.

14

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

and data processors on the other, and who have the qualifications,
experience and skills, in particular in the area of the protection of
personal data, required to fulfil their roles.
(5) The chairperson and other members of the Tribunal shall
hold office for a period of three years and cannot be removed during
their term of office except on grounds of proved inability to perform
the functions of their office, whether arising from infirmity of body
or mind or any other cause, or proved misbehaviour.



Cap. 12.

(6) A member of the Tribunal may be challenged or abstain
for any of the reasons for which a judge may be challenged or abstain
in accordance with article 734 of the Code of Organization and Civil
Procedure. In any such case the Minister shall appoint a person,
having the qualifications of the member challenged or abstaining, to
sit as a member of the Tribunal in substitution of the said member.
(7) A member of the House of Representatives or of a local
council, a judge or a magistrate, or an officer in the public service
shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing to be a
member of the Tribunal for so long as he holds that office.
(8) The Minister shall also designate a person to serve as
secretary to the Tribunal.

Registry of the
Information and
Data Protection
Appeals Tribunal.

25. (1)
There shall be a Registry of the Tribunal and all
records shall be filed therein and made accessible to the public.

Procedure.

26. (1)
Any person to whom a legally binding decision
of the Commissioner is addressed, shall have the right to appeal in
writing to the Tribunal within twenty days from the service of the
said decision as provided in article 23.

(2) The Secretary to the Tribunal shall be responsible for
managing the Registry. The Secretary shall also perform any other
duty which may be incumbent upon him under this Act or any rules
made thereunder.

(2) An appeal to the Tribunal may be made on any of the
following grounds:
(a)

that a material error as to the facts has been

(b)

that there was a material procedural error;

(c)

that an error of law has been made;

made;

(d)
that there was some material illegality, including
unreasonableness or lack of proportionality.
(3)

An appeal from a decision of the Commissioner shall be

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

filed in the Registry of the Tribunal and shall contain:
(a)

the grounds on which such appeal is based;

(b)
the names of the witnesses the appellant intends
to produce in evidence, together with their full address, stating
in respect of each of them the facts and proof he intends to
establish by their evidence; and
(c)
any other documents as may be necessary in
support of the appeal.
(4) The Registry of the Tribunal shall, no later than ten days
from the date of filing of the appeal:
(a)
serve a copy of the appeal on the Commissioner,
and request him to file a statement on his decision together
with any other information on which such decision was based,
within twenty days from the date when the appeal was served;
and
(b)
serve a copy of the appeal on the respondent or
respondents to the appealed decision, and request the
respondent or respondents to file a reply within twenty days of
service of the appeal.
(5) The respondent or respondents shall file their reply to
the appeal in the Registry of the Tribunal within twenty days of
service of the appeal. Such reply shall contain:
(a)
a statement of the facts upon which the
respondent bases his rebuttal of the appellant’s claim;
(b)
the names of the witnesses the respondent
intends to produce in evidence, together with their full address,
stating, in respect of each of them, the facts and proof he
intends to establish by their evidence; and
(c)
any other documents as may be necessary in
support of the defence.
(6) The reply, together with any documents in support
thereof, shall be served without delay on the appellant and on the
Commissioner by the Tribunal.
(7) Upon the expiry of the time-limits for filing the
Commissioner’s statement and the reply, the Tribunal shall fix a date
and time for the hearing. The Tribunal shall notify such date and time
to the appellant, the respondent or respondents to the appealed
decision and to the Commissioner.
(8)

The parties to an appeal may be represented or assisted

15

16

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

by their advocates or legal procurators, or by any other person who
enjoys their trust:
Provided that no person shall claim fees for representing
or assisting a party before the Tribunal unless such assistance is
provided by an advocate or legal procurator.
Competence of the
Tribunal.

27. (1)
The Tribunal shall be competent to hear and
decide any appeal made to it in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and, subject to the provisions of article 29, the decisions of the
Tribunal shall be final and binding.
(2) The Tribunal may summon any person to appear before
it to give evidence and produce documents. The Tribunal may also
appoint experts to advise it on any technical issue that may be
relevant to its decision. On the day appointed by the Tribunal for the
hearing of the appeal, it shall hear, under oath, the evidence of the
appellant and of the respondent, as well as of other witnesses. The
secretary shall issue the necessary summons by the method of service
referred to in article 23 for any person involved in the hearing of the
appeal.
(3) The Tribunal shall hold its sittings in public unless,
having regard to the nature of the appeal or any other matter before it,
it deems it proper to conduct the proceedings or part thereof in
private.
(4) The Tribunal shall have the same powers as are
competent to the First Hall, Civil Court according to law.
(5) Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act or any
other law, the Tribunal shall regulate its own procedure.
(6) If any party requires the attendance of witnesses, that
party shall complete Form A in the Second Schedule, which shall be
signed by the Chairman of the Tribunal and served on each witness in
accordance with sub-article (2).

Decisions of the
Tribunal.

28.

(1)

(a)
its entirety;

In determining an appeal the Tribunal may:
dismiss the appeal and confirm the decision in

(b)

substitute the decision;

(c)

modify or vary the decision; or

(d)

annul the decision.

(2) The Tribunal shall give reasons for its decision and shall
cause such decision to be made public omitting, if it deems it
appropriate for reasons of confidentiality, the identity of the persons

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

17

involved.
(3) The effects of a decision of the Commissioner which is
appealed from shall not, except where the Tribunal or the Court of
Appeal, as the case may be, so orders, be suspended by virtue of the
appeal:
Provided that any administrative fine imposed by the
Commissioner shall not apply until the person on whom the
administrative fine is imposed has exhausted all legal remedies
provided pursuant to articles 26 and 29, or if the person to whom the
decision is addressed has permitted the relevant time-limits to expire
without availing himself of the said legal remedies.
(4) The decisions of the Tribunal shall be notified to all
parties to the appeal and to the Commissioner, by any of the methods
of service referred to in article 23.
29. Any party to an appeal before the Tribunal who feels
aggrieved by a decision of the Tribunal, or the Commissioner if he
feels aggrieved by any such decision, may appeal to the Court of
Appeal as constituted in accordance with article 41(6) of the Code of
Organization and Civil Procedure by means of an application filed in
the registry of that court within twenty days from the date on which
the decision of the Tribunal was notified pursuant to article 26.

Court of Appeal.



Cap. 12.

30. (1)
Without prejudice to any other remedy available
to him, including the right to lodge a complaint with the
Commissioner, a data subject may, where he believes that his rights
under the Regulation or this Act have been infringed as a result of the
processing of his personal data in contravention of the provisions of
the Regulation or this Act, by sworn application filed before the First
Hall of the Civil Court, institute an action for an effective judicial
remedy against the controller or processor concerned.

Right to take action
against the
controller or
processor.

(2) A data subject may also, by sworn application filed
before the First Hall of the Civil Court, institute an action for
damages against the controller or processor who processes personal
data in contravention of the provisions of the Regulation or this Act.
(3) If in determining an action under sub-article (2) the
court finds that the controller or processor is liable for the damage
caused pursuant to Article 82 of the Regulation, the court shall
determine the amount of damages, including, but not limited to,
moral damages as the court may determine, due to the data subject.
(4) Any action under this article shall be instituted within a
period of twelve months from the date when the data subject became
aware, or ought to have reasonably become aware, of such a
contravention, whichever is the earlier.

18

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

Actions against the
Commissioner.

31. (1)
Where the Commissioner fails to act in
accordance with Article 78(2) of the Regulation, the data subject may
appeal to the Tribunal in accordance with the procedures established
in article 26.
(2) Where the Tribunal finds that such an appeal is justified
it shall, where appropriate, order the Commissioner to update the data
subject on the progress or outcome of the complaint lodged or order
the Commissioner to handle the complaint lodged in accordance with
Article 77(1) of the Regulation.
PART VIII
General Provisions

Accreditation of
certification
bodies.

S.L. 419.07

32. (1)
The certification bodies referred to in Article 43
of the Regulation shall be accredited by the National Accreditation
Board (Malta) as established by regulation 3 of the National
Accreditation Board (Malta) (Establishment) Regulations.
(2) The Board referred to in sub-article (1) shall accredit
certification bodies in accordance with EN-ISO/IEC 17065/2012 and
with the additional criteria and requirements established by the
Commissioner.
(3) For the purposes of this article, the National
Accreditation Board (Malta) may consult the Commissioner in the
process of accrediting certification bodies.
(4) Where the Commissioner concludes that the conditions
for accreditation are not, or are no longer met, or where action taken
by a certification body infringes the Regulation, the Commissioner
shall advise the National Accreditation Board (Malta) not to issue
such accreditation, or to revoke such accreditation, as the case may
be.

Power to make
regulations.

33. The Minister may, after consultation with the
Commissioner, prescribe regulations for the better carrying out of the
provisions of this Act and the Regulation, and without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing and the provisions of the Regulation,
may in particular prescribe regulations concerning:
(a)
any
Commissioner;
(b)
this Act;

fees

that

may

be

levied

by

the

the criminal penalties that may be imposed under

(c)
for establishing rules, procedures, formalities
and time limits in respect of any matter provided for under this
Act;

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

(d)
the extension of the application of this Act to
any particular activity or sector and to provide for the manner
in which data protection is to be implemented in specific
sectors or in respect of specific activities;
(e)
for anything that may be prescribed under any of
the provisions of this Act or the Regulation;
(f)
the cases, other than those referred to in Article
37(1) of the Regulation, where the controller or processor or
associations and other bodies representing categories of
controllers or processors shall designate a data protection
officer;
(g)
the establishment of a lower age than sixteen
years where the processing of the personal data of a child shall
be deemed to be lawful in the absence of consent by the holder
of parental responsibility over the child, provided that such
lower age is not below thirteen years pursuant the provisions
of Article 8(1) of the Regulation;
(h)

to amend the Schedules to this Act; and

(i)

on any other matter relating to data protection.

34. (1)
The Data Protection Act, hereinafter referred to
as "the repealed Act", is hereby repealed, and any references in any
law to the repealed Act shall be construed as references to this Act.
(2)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-article (1):

(a)
the repealed Act shall remain in force for the
purpose of any act, decision, action or proceedings taken in
respect of any breach of the repealed Act that occurred or were
instituted prior to the coming into force of this Act; and
(b)
any subsidiary legislation made under the
provisions of the repealed Act shall, until other provision is
made under or by virtue of this Act, continue in force and have
effect as if it was made under this Act.

Repeal and
Savings.
Cap. 440.

19

20

[ CAP. 586.

DATA PROTECTION
FIRST SCHEDULE
(Article 17)
Oath of Office

I ……………………………………… solemnly swear / affirm
that I will faithfully and conscientiously perform my duties as
(Information and Data Protection Commissioner / Officer of the
Information and Data Protection Commissioner / Employee of the
Information and Data Protection Commissioner) in terms of the Data
Protection Act, the General Data Protection Regulation and in
accordance with the laws of Malta, without fear or favour. (So help
me God).

DATA PROTECTION

[ CAP. 586.

SECOND SCHEDULE
(Article 27)
FORM A
Summons of Witnesses
INFORMATION AND DATA PROTECTION APPEALS
TRIBUNAL
DATA PROTECTION ACT
In the case.....................................................................
versus........................................................
Application of
Respectfully requests the issue of a summons of a witness in
the above-stated cause against the person mentioned hereunder
to attend for the hearing at the time stated hereunder, and at
any other hearing as may be required, and to bring with him/
her any documents referred to hereunder.
Name and address (home or work or e-mail) of the person
summoned to attend as a witness:
……………………………………...........................................
…………………………………………………………………
Documents to be brought by him/her:
…………………………………………………………………
Date, time and place where he/she is to attend:
…………………………………………………………………
The said ……………………………………is hereby being
warned that should he/she fail to attend the sitting without
informing the Tribunal of his/her unavailability beforehand, he/
she may be compelled to attend by a warrant of escort and shall
be liable to all consequences according to the provisions of the
Code of Organization and Civil Procedure.
Given by order of the Information and Data Protection
Appeals Tribunal.
This, .................... day of .............................. 20...............

21

