Unofficial translation

LAW
on Personal Data Protection
This Law establishes the legal framework necessary for the enforcement of
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October
1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data.
The Parliament adopts this organic law.
Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Purpose of Law
The purpose of this law is to ensure protection of the rights and
fundamental freedoms of natural person with respect to the processing of
personal data, notably the right to inviolability of intimate, family and private
life.
Article 2. Scope
(1) This law regulates relations arising in course of the processing
operations of personal data performed wholly or partly by automatic means, and
otherwise than by automatic means, which form part of a filing system or are
intended to be included in such a filing system.
(2) This Law shall apply:
a) to the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the
activities performed by the controllers established on the territory of the
Republic of Moldova;
b) to the processing of personal data carried out within the diplomatic
missions and consular offices of the Republic of Moldova, as well as carried out
by other controllers that do not have permanently establishment on the territory
of the Republic of Moldova, but are situated in a place where the domestic law
of the Republic of Moldova applies by virtue of international public law;
c) to the processing of personal data carried out by controllers that are not
established on the territory of the Republic of Moldova, making use of
equipment situated on the territory of the Republic of Moldova, unless such
equipment is used only for purposes of transit through the territory of the
Republic of Moldova;

d) to the processing of personal data in the context of actions of prevention
and investigation of criminal offences, enforcement of convictions and other
activities within criminal or administrative procedures, in terms of the law;
(3) The provisions of this law are applicable to the processor, without
prejudice to legal actions which could be initiated against the controller himself.
(4) This Law shall not apply:
a) to the processing of personal data carried out by controllers exclusively
for personal and family needs, where the rights of personal data subjects are not
violated thereby;
b) to the processing of personal data assigned to state secret, according to
an established procedure, excepting the information referred to in paragraph (2),
d);
c) to the processing operations and cross-border transmission of personal
data referring to the perpetrators or victims of genocide, crimes against humanity
and war crimes.
Article 3. Definitions
Terms used in this Law shall have the following meanings:
personal data - any information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person ('personal data subject'). An identifiable person is one who can be
identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification
number or to one or more factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental,
economic, cultural or social identity;
special categories of personal data – data revealing racial or ethnic origin,
political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, social belonging, data
concerning health or sex life, as well as data relating to criminal convictions,
administrative sanctions or coercive procedural measures;
processing of personal data – any operation or set of operations which is
performed upon personal data, whether or not by automatic means, such as
collection, recording, organization, storage, keeping, restoring, adaptation or
alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination
or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, blocking, erasure or
destruction;
personal data filing system – any structured set of personal data which are
accessible according to specific criteria, whether centralized, decentralized or
dispersed on a functional or geographical basis;
2

controller – a natural or legal person governed by public law, or by private
law, including public authority, agency or any other body which alone or jointly
with others determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal
data expressly provided by applicable law;
processor – a natural or legal person governed by public law, or by private
law, including public authority and its territorial subdivisions, which processes
personal data on behalf of the controller, on instructions from the controller;
third party – a natural or legal person governed by public law, or by
private law, other than the personal data subject, the controller, the processor and
the persons who, under the direct authority of the controller or the processor, are
authorized to process the personal data;
recipient – a natural or legal person governed by public law, or by private
law, including public authority and its territorial subdivisions, to whom personal
data are disclosed, whether a third party or not. The bodies responsible for the
national defence, state security and public order, the prosecution bodies and the
courts, which may receive personal data in the framework of exercising their
duties established by law, shall not be regarded as recipients;
personal data subject’s consent – any freely given, expressly and
unconditionally indication of will, in written or electronic form, according to the
requirements of the electronic document, by which the personal data subject
signifies his agreement to personal data relating to him being processed;
depersonalisation of data – is such alteration of personal data so that
details of personal or material circumstances can no longer be linked to an
identified or identifiable natural person or so link can only be made within an
investigation with disproportionate efforts, expense and use of time.
Chapter II
BASIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PROCESSING, STORAGE AND USE
OF PERSONAL DATA
Article 4. Characteristics of personal data
(1) Personal data undergoing processing must be:
a) processed fairly and lawfully;
b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further
processed in a way incompatible with those purposes. Further processing of data
for historical, statistical or scientific purposes shall not be considered as
incompatible with the purpose of the collection if is carried out in compliance
with the provision of this law, including those for notifying the National Centre
for Personal Data Protection, and observing safeguards for personal data
3

processing, provided by by-laws regulating the statistical activity, historical or
scientific research;
c) adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for
which they are collected and/or further processed;
d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date. Data which are
inaccurate or incomplete, having regard to the purposes for which they were
collected or for which they are further processed, are erased or rectified;
e) kept in a form which permits identification of personal data subjects for
no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data were collected
and further processed. Storage of personal data for longer period for purposes of
statistical, historical or scientific research, shall be performed in compliance with
appropriate safeguards for personal data processing, provided by by-laws
regulating these fields, and only for as long as necessary to achieve those
purposes.
(2) The controllers have the obligation to ensure that paragraph (1) is
complied with.
Article 5. Processing of personal data
(1) Personal data shall be processed with the consent of personal data
subject.
(2) The consent given for personal data processing may be withdrawn at
any time by the personal data subject. The withdrawal of consent shall not be
retroactive.
(3) Where the personal data subject is physically or legally incapable of
giving his consent, the consent for the processing of personal data shall be given
in written by his legal representative.
(4) In case of death of the personal data subject, the consent for the
processing of his personal data shall be given in written by the successors of the
latter, where such consent has not been given by the personal data subject during
life.
(5) The personal data subject’s consent is not required where:
a) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which
the personal data subject is party, in order to take steps at the request of the data
subject prior to entering into a contract;
b) the processing is necessary for carrying out an obligation of the
controller, under the law;
c) the processing is necessary in order to protect the life, physical integrity
or health of the personal data subject;
d) the processing is necessary for the performance of tasks carried out in
the public interest or in the exercise of public authority prerogatives vested in the
controller or in a third party to whom the personal data are disclosed;
e) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interest
pursued by the controller or by the third party to whom personal data are
4

disclosed, except where such interest is overridden by the interests for
fundamental rights and freedoms of the personal data subject;
f) the processing is necessary for statistical, historical or scientific-research
purposes, except where the personal data remain anonymous for longer period of
processing.
Article 6. Processing of special categories of personal data
(1) The processing of special categories of personal data shall be
prohibited, except for cases where:
a) the personal data subject has given his consent. Where the personal data
subject is physically or legally incapable of giving his consent, the processing of
special categories of personal data shall be carried out only with the written
consent of his legal representative;
b) processing is necessary for the purposes of carrying out the obligations
and specific rights of the controller in the field of employment law, providing
safeguards set by law, as well as taking into account that possible disclosure of
the personal data processed for this purpose to a third party may take place only
if there is an appropriate legal obligation of the controller, therefore;
c) processing is necessary to protect the life, physical integrity or health of
the personal data subject or of another person where the data subject is
physically or legally incapable of giving his consent;
d) processing is carried out in the course of its legitimate activities by a
foundation, association or any other non-profit organization with a political,
philosophical, religious or trade-union aim, and on condition that processing
relates solely to the members of the body or to persons who have regular contact
with it in connection with its purposes and that the data are not disclosed to a
third party without the consent of personal data subjects;
e) processing relates to data which are voluntary and manifestly made
public by the personal data subject;
f) processing is necessary to establish, exercise or defend of legal claims
of the personal data subject;
g) processing is necessary for the purposes to ensure national security,
where the processing is unlikely adversely to affect the rights of personal data
subject and the other appropriate safeguards provided for in this law.
(2) National Centre for Personal Data Protection may order, for grounded
reasons, to prohibit the processing of special categories of personal data, even if
the data subject has given his consent and the consent has not been withdrawn,
provided that the prohibition is not removed in one of the cases referred to in
paragraph (1), b) – g).
Article 7. Processing of health-related personal data
(1) By derogation from provisions of Article 6, the processing of personal
data relating to health may be carried out, where:
5

a) processing is required for the purposes of preventive medicine, medical
diagnosis, the provision of care or treatment to the personal data subject, or the
management of health-care services, acting in the interest of the personal data
subject;
b) processing is necessary for protection of public health.
(2) Health professionals, health-care institutions and their medical staff
may process personal data concerning health status without the authorization of
the National Centre for Personal Data Protection, only if processing is necessary
to protect the life, physical integrity or health of the personal data subject. When
the abovementioned purposes refer to other persons or to public in general and
the personal data subjects have not given their written and unambiguously
consent, a prior authorization from the Centre must be requested and received, as
provided by law.
(3) Personal data on health status can be processed for the purposes
specified in paragraph (1), by or under supervision of a health professional
subject to the obligation of professional secrecy or under supervision of another
person also subject to an equivalent obligation of secrecy.
(4) Personal data on health status shall be collected from personal data
subject or where such processing is required under paragraph (1).
Article 8. Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions,
coercive procedural measures or administrative sanctions
(1) Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions, coercive
procedural measures or administrative sanctions may be carried out only by or
under the control of public authorities, within the limits of their competences and
on the conditions set by laws regulating these areas.
(2) The Registry of Criminals and Criminological Data is kept by the
Ministry of Internal Affairs.
Article 9. Processing of personal data with an identification function
Processing of individual’s state identification number (IDNP), fingerprints
or any other identifier of general application may be performed if:
a) the personal data subject has given his consent;
b) processing is expressly stipulated by law.
Article 10. Processing of personal data and freedom of expression
Provisions referred to in Articles 5, 6 and 8 shall not apply if processing of
personal data is carried out, exclusively for journalistic, artistic or literary
purposes, if processing relates to personal data which have been voluntary and
manifestly made public by the personal data subject or which are closely related
to the personal data subject as a public person or to the public nature of the
6

events that the person concerned are involved in, in terms of the Law on freedom
of expression.
Article 11. Storage and use of personal data at the end of processing
operations
(1) The conditions and time periods of personal data storage shall be set by
law, taking into account the provisions referred to in Article 4, paragraph (1), e).
Upon expiration of the storage time limit, the personal data shall be destroyed as
established by law.
(2) Personal data contained in the state records, for no longer than is
necessary to be used, may be kept only as an archive document.
(3) At the end of personal data processing operations, if the personal data
subject has not given his consent for another destination or further processing,
personal data shall be:
a) destroyed;
b) transferred to another controller, provided that the original controller
guarantees that further processing shall be carried out for purposes similar to
those for which the data initially have been processed;
c) rendered in anonymous data and stored exclusively for statistical,
historical or scientific-research purposes.
(4) After the death of the personal data subject, his personal data shall be
used for archive purposes and other purposes stipulated by law, with the consent
of his successors.
Chapter III
RIGHTS OF PERSONAL DATA SUBJECT
Article 12. Informing the personal data subject
(1) Where the personal data are collected directly from the personal data
subject, the controller or the processor must provide the data subject with the
following information, except where he already has it:
1) the identity of the controller or of the processor, as the case may be;
2) the purpose of processing for which the data are collected;
3) additional information, such as:
a) recipients or categories of recipients of personal data;
b) existence of the rights of access to data, the right of intervention upon
data and the right to object, as well as conditions under which such rights may
be exercised;
c) whether the answers to the questions intended to collect data are
mandatory or voluntary, as well as the possible consequences of denial to
respond;
7

(2) Where the personal data are not collected directly from the personal data
subject, the controller or the processor must, at the time of data collection or, if a
disclosure to the third parties is envisaged, no later than the time when the data are
first disclosed provide the personal data subject with information on the categories
of personal data which are intended to be collected or disclosed, as well as with
the information specified in paragraph (1), except item 3), c).
(3) Provisions referred to in paragraph (2) shall not apply where:
a) the personal data subject has already the information;
b) processing of personal data is carried out for statistical, historical or
scientific-research purposes;
c) provision of information that proves to be impossible or involves
disproportionate effort towards the legitimate interest that might be violated;
d) recording or disclosure of personal data is expressly stipulated by law.
Article 13. The right of access to personal data
(1) Any personal data subject has the right to obtain from the controller,
upon request, without delay and free of charge:
a) confirmation as to whether or not data relating to him are being
processed and information as to the purposes of the processing, the categories of
data concerned, and the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data
are disclosed;
b) communication to him in an intelligible form and in a way that does not
require additional equipment, of the data undergoing processing, and of any
available information as to their source;
c) information on the logic involved in any automatic processing of data
concerning the personal data subject;
d) information on legal consequences for the personal data subject
generated by processing of these data;
e) information on the exercise of the right of intervention upon the
personal data.
(2) Where the personal data concerning health are processed for the purpose
of scientific-research, where there is clearly no risk of breaching the rights of the
personal data subject, and the data are not used for taking measures or decisions
regarding any particular individual, communication of information specified in
paragraph (1) may be done within a period of time longer than the one stipulated
by the Law on access to information, to the extent to which it could affect the
good carrying-out or results of the research, but not later than the research is over.
The personal data subject must give his consent to the processing of healthrelated data for scientific-research purposes, as well as to the possible delay, for
this reason, of the communication of information provided for in paragraph (1).
8

Article 14. The right of intervention upon personal data
Any personal data subject has the right to obtain from the controller or his
representative, on request and free of charge:
a) the rectification, update, blocking or erasure of personal data, the
processing of which does not comply with this law, in particular because of their
incomplete or inaccurate nature;
b) notification of the third parties to whom the personal data have been
disclosed, about any operations performed under the provisions referred to in
letter a), except where such notification proves to be impossible or involves
disproportionate effort towards the legitimate interest that might be violated.
Article 15. Exemptions and restrictions
(1) The provisions referred to in Article 4 (1), Article 12, (1) and (2),
Articles 13, 14, 28 shall not apply where the processing of personal data is
carried out in the course of activities provided for in Article 2, paragraph (2), d),
for the purposes of national defence, state security and public order, protection of
the rights and freedoms of personal data subject or of other persons, if their
application affects the efficiency of action or the objective pursued in fulfilment
of legal duties of a public authority.
(2) The processing of personal data for purposes set in paragraph (1) shall
not be carried out for longer period than necessary to achieve the pursued
objective.
(3) As soon as the reasons that justified the enforcement of paragraphs (1)
and (2) of this Article no longer exist the controllers shall take the necessary
measures in order to ensure the observance of personal data subject’s rights
provided for in Articles 12 – 14.
(4) Public authorities shall keep record of the application of exceptions set
in paragraph (1) and shall inform the National Centre for Personal Data
Protection, within 10 days, about the personal data processed in terms of this
Article.
Article 16. The right of the personal data subject to object
(1) The personal data subject shall have the right to object at any time and
free of charge on compelling legitimate grounds relating to his particular
situation to the processing of personal data relating to him, save where otherwise
provided by law. Where there is a justified objection, the processing instigated
by the controller may no longer involve those data.
(2) The personal data subject has the right to object at any time and free of
charge without any justification to the processing of personal data relating to him
for the purpose of direct marketing. The controller or the processor is obliged to
9

inform the person concerned about the right to object such operation before his
personal data are to be disclosed to third parties.
Article 17. The right not to be subject to an individual decision
(1) Any person shall have the right to request for the rescinding, in whole
or in part, of any individual decision which produces legal effects concerning his
rights and freedoms, and which is based solely on automated processing of data
intended to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to him such as his
performance at work, creditworthiness, conduct, or other similar aspects.
(2) A person may be subjected to the decision of the kind referred to in
paragraph (1) if that decision:
a) is authorized by a law which also lays down measures to safeguard the
personal data subject's legitimate interests;
b) is taken in the course of the entering into or performance of a contract,
provided that the request for the entering into or the performance of the contract,
lodged by the data subject, has been satisfied.
Article 18. Access to Justice
Any person who has suffered damage as a result of an unlawful processing
operation of personal data or his rights and interests guaranteed by this law have
been violated, shall have the right to refer in a court in order to repair the
material and moral damages.

Chapter IV
SUPERVISORY BODY FOR PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING
Article 19. Supervisory body for personal data processing
(1) Control over compliance of personal data processing with the
requirements of this law is performed by the National Centre for Personal Data
Protection (hereinafter – Centre) that carries out its activity under the conditions
of impartiality and independence.
(2) The Centre is a legal entity, has a stamp and a letter-head with the State
Emblem of the Republic of Moldova. The Centre has its permanent address in
Chisinau.
(3) The Regulation of the Centre, its structure and staff-limit shall be
approved by the Parliament.
(4) The Centre’s budget shall be approved by a Parliament Decision, after
its examination and approval by the relevant Parliamentary Committee.
10

(5) The Parliament shall submit to the Government the approved budget of
the Centre to be included in the draft State Budget Law for the next year.
Article 20. Duties and competences of the Centre
(1) The Centre has the following duties:
a) to supervise the compliance of the legislation on the protection of
information and to monitor its application, especially the right to information, the
right of access to data, the right of intervention upon the data and the right to
object;
b) to authorize the processing operations of personal data as provided for
by law;
c) to develop guidelines necessary to bring personal data processing in
compliance with the provisions of this law, without affecting the area of
competence of other bodies;
d) to provide information to personal data subjects on their rights;
e) to order the suspension or cessation of personal data processing
performed with violation of the provisions of this law;
f) to keep the register of personal data controllers, which form and
content is approved by the Government; the register shall be public, except for
the information referred to in Article 23, paragraph (2), l);
g) to issue orders in the area of personal data protection, and standard
forms for notifications and for its own registers;
h) to receive and analyze notifications on personal data processing;
i) to carry out control of the lawfulness of personal data processing in
accordance with the Regulation, which develops and approves it;
j) to make proposals on improving the enacted legislation in the area of
personal data protection and processing;
k) to cooperate with public authorities, mass media, NGOs, as well as
with similar foreign institutions;
l) to compile and analyze annual activity reports of public authorities with
regard to the protection of individuals in respect of personal data processing;
m) to notify the law enforcement bodies if there are indication of
committing crimes related to infringement of personal data subjects’ rights;
n) to establish contraventions and to draw up minutes according to the
Contravention Code of the Republic of Moldova;
o) to inform public authorities, on the situation existing in the field of the
protection of personal data subjects’ rights, as well as to respond to their claims
and requests;
p) to survey the fulfilment of requirements set by the Government with
regard to the personal data security within their processing;
q) to inform regularly the institutions and the society about its activity, the
issues and priority concerns in the area of the protection of individual’s rights;
11

r) to provide assistance and to perform the requests for assistance in terms

of enforcement of the Convention for the protection of individuals with regard to
automatic processing of personal data;
s) to carry out other duties as provided for by law.
(2) The Centre has the following competences:
a) to request and receive, free of charge, from natural or legal persons
governed by public law, or by private law, information necessary for the exercise
of its duties;
b) to obtain from controllers the support and information necessary for the
exercise of its duties;
c) to recruit specialists and experts in the activity of prior checking and
control of the lawfulness of personal data processing in areas which require
special expertise, with whom it shall conclude agreements of confidentiality;
d) to request from controllers the rectification, blocking or destruction of
personal data which are inaccurate or obtained unlawfully.
(3)The controllers, regardless of their legal form of organization, provide
to the Centre the requested documents and materials on protection of personal
data within 15 days if the request does not provide otherwise.
Article 21. Organisation of the Centre’s activity
(1) Within its activity, the Centre shall provide the confidentiality of
personal data which became known to it.
(2) In order to collect the information necessary to fulfil the supervisory
duties, the employees of the Centre shall have the right of free access to the
facilities and the territory of location of personal data files, to personal data
processed by controllers and/or by processors, to the processing equipment,
programs and applications, as well as to any document or recording related to the
processing of personal data, in terms of the law.
(3) The Centre shall submit to the Parliament, the President of the
Republic of Moldova and the Government, annually, until March 15, the activity
report for the preceding calendar year, which shall be published free of charge in
the Official Gazette of the Republic of Moldova and on the website of the
Centre.
Article 22. The Centre’s leadership
(1) The Centre is led by a director appointed by the Parliament upon the
proposal of the President of Parliament, a parliamentary fraction or a group of at
least 15 MPs, with the vote of the majority of elected deputies, for a term of 5
years. The appointed person may hold the position of director for not more than
two consecutive mandates.
12

(2) The Director carries out general management of the Centre, employs
and dismisses the Centre’s staff in terms of the Law on public function and the
statute of the civil servant, establishes employees’ duties, organizes preparation
of annual reports and presents them at the Parliament’s plenary, represents the
institution in the country and abroad.
(3) In exercising his duties, the director is assisted by a deputy, appointed
by the Parliament upon proposal of the director of the Centre with the vote of the
majority of elected deputies, for a term of 5 years. In the absence of the director
of the Centre, the deputy director temporarily fulfils his duties.
(4) Any person holding a citizenship of the Republic of Moldova, with
higher education in Law and professional experience of at least 5 years in the
field of protection of human rights and freedoms may be appointed as director or
deputy director of the Centre.
(5) The positions of the director and deputy director are public dignity
functions and are remunerated in accordance with the Law on wage system in the
public sector.
(6) While exercising his mandate, the director and the deputy director of
the Centre may not be part of parties or other social -political organizations, may
not practice other public or private activities, except for didactic and scientific
activity, and have no right to hold, directly or indirectly, movables in trade
companies or enterprises, which are governed by the Centre.
(7) The exercise of the director and deputy director’s mandates expire at
the end of their term, if the terms are not extending as provided for by law.
Where the regular term of office has expired, the director and deputy director of
the Centre remain in the exercise of duty until their successors take over these
functions, except for cases when duties’ fulfilment is ended before term.
(8) The mandate of the director and deputy director of the Centre expires
before term in case of:
a) resignation;
b) incompatibility with other public or private functions;
c) revocation from position;
d) impossibility to serve the mandate for health reasons established by
medical examination;
e) death.
(9) Proposal of revocation of the director of the Centre from his position
can be made by the President of the Parliament, a parliamentary fraction or at
least 15 MPs in the following cases:
13

a) serious violation of job attributions stipulated by the legislation;
b) definitive settlement of a conviction sentence for committing a crime.
(10) Proposal of revocation of the deputy director of the Centre from his
position may be made by the director of the Centre, a parliamentary fraction or at
least 15 MPs in the cases provided for in paragraph (9). The revocation decision
shall be adopted with the vote of the majority of elected MPs.
Chapter V
CONTROL OF PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Article 23. Notification of the Centre on the processing of personal data
(1) Controllers must notify the Centre, personally or through the
representatives authorised by them (processors), before carrying out the
processing of personal data intended to serve a purpose. The processing of other
categories of personal data than those notified before shall be carried out under a
new notification.
(2) The notification should contain the following information:
a) name and address or headquarters in the Republic of Moldova of the
controller and the processor, if any;
b) the purpose of processing;
c) the description of category of personal data subjects and of the data to
be processed, as well as the sources of those data;
d) the existence of personal data subject’s consent to the processing of
data;
e) the way of informing of personal data subjects about their rights;
estimated date for ending the processing operations, as well as further destination
of personal data;
f) the recipients to whom the personal data are intended to be disclosed;
g) the guarantees for the transfer of personal data to third parties;
h) proposals on transborder transfers of personal data intended to take
place;
i) persons responsible for personal data processing;
j) specification of personal data filing systems related to processing, as
well as possible relations with other processing operations of data or with other
personal data filing systems, whether performed or not, and if there are
established on the territory of the Republic of Moldova;
k) reasons that justify the application of provisions referred to in Articles
10 and 12, (3) where the processing of data is performed exclusively for
journalistic, literary or artistic purposes, or for purposes of statistical, historical
or scientific-research;
14

l) general description of measures taken in respect of ensuring the security
of personal data processing as provided for by Article 30.
(3) Where the processed personal data are to be transferred abroad, the
notification shall also include:
a) the categories of data intended to be transferred;
b) the country of destination for each category of data.
(4) Public authorities carrying out the processing of personal data in
connection with the activities specified in Article 2, paragraph (2), d) for
exercising their legal duties in the sphere of their competence or fulfil the
obligations under the international agreements to which Republic of Moldova is
a party, must submit an information statement that shall contain:
a) the name and address of the controller or of the processor, if any;
b) the purpose and legal grounds for processing;
c) the categories of personal data subject to processing.
(5) Notification is not necessary when processing is performed for the
purpose of keeping a register designed to inform the public or any other person
who proves legitimate interest, provided that processing is limited to data
necessary for keeping the mentioned register.
(6) The Centre may also establish other cases where notification is not
necessary or where it may be performed in a simplified form, when:
1) processing, taking into consideration the nature of personal data, does
not affect the rights of personal data subjects, with the condition to specify:
a) the purpose of such processing;
b) the data that may be processed;
c) the categories of personal data subjects;
d) the recipients to whom personal data may be transmitted;
e) the period of storage of personal data;
2) processing is carried out under the provisions of Article 6, paragraph
(1), d).
(7) In case of processing of personal data which was not notified, the
controller or the processor shall submit to the personal data subject, on request, the
information referred to in paragraph (2), a)-k), except for cases provided for by
paragraph (5).
(8)
Every controller to primary notification is given a registration
number which shall be indicated on all documents through which personal data
are collected, stored or transmitted.
15

Article 24. Prior checking
(1) If, based on the notification, the Centre establishes that the processing
falls under one of the categories referred to in paragraph (2) of this article, it
shall mandatory order the conduct of a prior checking, informing the controller
or the processor within 5 days from the date of submission of notification.
(2) The categories of the processing operations of personal data subject to
transborder transfer and the categories of the processing operations of personal
data likely to present specific risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals shall
be subject to a prior checking, as follows:
a) processing operations of special categories of personal data, as well as
genetic, biometric data, and those that allow the geolocalisation of persons,
including for purposes of scientific research;
b) processing operations of personal data by automatic means intended to
evaluate certain personal aspects related to him, such as performance at work,
creditworthiness, conduct or other such aspects;
c) processing operations of personal data by automatic means within
certain filing systems, intended to make an automated individual decision with
relation to the analysis of solvency, economic and financial situation, facts
exempted from disciplinary, administrative or criminal liability of natural
persons, carried out by private entities.
d) processing operations of minors’ personal data within direct marketing
activities;
e) processing operations of personal data referred to in letter a) and
personal data of minors collected via internet or electronic messaging.
(3) Prior checking shall be conducted on the basis of information
contained in the notification provided by the controller or the processor. The
Centre may also request other information regarding the origin of personal data,
the automated processing technology used, and the security measures for
personal data processing.
(4) The length of prior checking may not exceed 45 days. If necessary,
given the complexity of personal data processing operations, the Centre may
extend the term for the conduct of prior checking for another 45 days, about
which the controller or the processor shall be informed.
Article 25. Authorisation for personal data processing operations
(1) Within 7 days from the date that the prior checking has been carried
out, the Centre shall issue the decision on approval or refusal of the authorisation
for the operations referred to in Article 24, (2).
16

(2) The content and form of authorisation shall be approved by the Centre.
The processing of personal data without authorisation or beyond the limits
provided for by the authorisation shall be prohibited.
(3) The decision to deny the authorisation for personal data processing
shall be based on reasons justifying the refusal and, as the case may be, the way
of eliminating circumstances hindering the processing of such data. The decision
on refusal to authorise the processing of personal data may be appealed to the
competent administrative court.
(4) Denial of personal data processing authorisation shall not preclude the
controller from notifying the Centre repeatedly after the elimination of
circumstances that have hindered the processing of such data.
Article 26. Control of lawfulness of personal data processing
(1) The control of lawfulness of personal data processing (hereinafter –
control) aims at checking on whether or not the controller and the processor
comply with the requirements and fulfil the conditions stipulated in this law.
(2) The control is carried out by the Centre under an annual approved
schedule published on its website.
(3) The Centre shall inform the controller or the processor about its intent
to carry out the control 5 days before it starts, except for the cases referred to in
Article 27, paragraphs (2) and (4).
(4) Where, following the control carried out there are established
violations, the Centre shall issue a decision on suspending the processing
operations of personal data, which shall contain instructions for bringing the
personal data processing in compliance with the provisions of this law.
(5) The processing operations of personal data shall be suspended until the
elimination of circumstances that served as grounds for issuing the decision. The
controller or the processor must eliminate those circumstances within 30 days
from the date of issuance of the decision on suspension.
(6) Where the controller or the processor has not eliminated the
circumstances that served as grounds for suspension within the term set in
paragraph (5), the Centre shall issue a decision on cessation of personal data
processing operations, ordering or not the blocking or destruction of personal
data which are inaccurate or are obtained illegally.
(7) The decision on suspension or cessation of personal data processing
operations may be appealed to the competent administrative court.
17

Article 27. Procedure of complaints reception and settlement
by the Centre
(1) Personal data subjects who consider that processing of their personal
data does not comply with the requirements of this law, may address a complaint
to the Centre within 30 days from the date of detecting violations.
(2) In the process of settling complaint, the Centre may hear the personal
data subject, the controller and, as the case may be the processor, the witnesses
and may order the conduct of an unscheduled control.
(3) Following the complaint examination, the Centre shall issue a
grounded decision either on no violations of the legal provisions, or on the
suspension of personal data processing operations, or on rectification, blocking
or destruction of inaccurate data or obtained unlawfully. The decision shall be
communicated to the interested parties within 30 days from the date of the
receipt of complaint.
(4) Provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) shall apply appropriately where
the Centre takes action ex officio with regard to the commission of a violation of
the personal data subjects’ rights acknowledged by this law.
(5) The controller, processor or personal data subject may appeal the
decision of the Centre to the competent administrative court.
Article 28. Register of personal data controllers
(1) For the purpose of recording the processing operations of personal
data, the Centre shall institute and keep a register of personal data controllers
that shall contain the information listed in Article 23, paragraph (2). Any
modification of this information shall be communicated to the Centre within 5
days, and the Centre will make the corresponding entries in the register of
personal data controllers.
(2) The register of personal data controllers is opened for consultation to
the public, except for the section containing information on security measures
and confidentiality guarantees. The method of consultation is determined by the
Centre.
(3) Recording of controllers and of modifications of the information
entered in the register of personal data controllers is performed free of charge.
Chapter VI
CONFIDENTIALITY AND SECURITY OF PERSONAL DATA
PROCESSING
18

Article 29. Confidentiality of personal data
(1) Controllers and third parties who have access to personal data must
ensure the confidentiality of those data, except where:
a) processing relates to data which are voluntary and manifestly made
public by the personal data subject;
b) personal data are rendered anonymous;
(2) Any person acting on behalf, on the account or in any other way under
the authority of the controller will be able to process personal data only on
instructions from the controller, unless he is required to do so by law.
(3) The Centre’s leadership and employees are obliged to guarantee nondisclosure of the professional secrecy with regard to confidential information to
which they have access, even after their functions have been served out.
Article 30. Security of personal data processing
(1) While the processing of personal data, the controller must implement
appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect personal data
against destruction, alteration, blocking, copying, disclosure, and against other
unlawful forms of processing, that shall ensure a level of security appropriate to
the risks represented by the processing and the nature of the data.
(2) The controller must, where processing is carried out on his behalf,
choose a processor that shall ensure sufficient guarantees in respect of the
technical security measures and organizational measures governing the
processing to be carried out.
(3) The carrying out of processing by way of a processor must be
governed by a contract or legal act stipulating, in particular that:
a) the processor shall act only on instructions from the controller;
b) the obligations set out in paragraph (1) shall also be incumbent on the
processor.
(4) The requirements for ensuring security of personal data at their
processing within information systems are established by the Government.
Article 31. Depersonalization of personal data
(1) For statistical purposes, historical, scientific, sociological, health
research, legal documentation, the controller shall depersonalize the data by
withdrawing those which permit the identification of natural person, rendering it
in anonymous data, which cannot be associated with an identified or identifiable
person.
(2) Where the personal data are rendered anonymous, the confidentiality
treatment established for this data shall be cancelled.
19

Chapter VII
TRANSBORDER TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA
Article 32. Transborder transfer of personal data
(1) This article shall apply to the transfer to another state, regardless of
used medium or means, of personal data undergoing processing or are intended
for processing.
(2) Personal data intended for transfer to another state shall be protected in
accordance with this law.
(3) Transborder transmission of personal data undergoing processing or
are intended for processing after transfer may take place only with the
authorization of the Centre, as provided for by law, and only if the country in
question ensures an adequate level of protection of personal data subjects’ rights
and of data intended for transfer.
(4) The level of protection shall be established by the Centre taking into
account the conditions in which personal data transmission takes place,
especially the nature of data, the purpose and duration of proposed processing
operations, the country of destination, the legislation in force in the country in
question and the professional rules and security measures which are complied
with in that country.
(5) Where the Centre considers that the country of destination does not
ensure an adequate level of protection, it shall prevent any transfer of data.
(6) The Centre may authorise, as provided for by law, the transfer of
personal data to another state, which legislation does not ensure at least the same
level of protection as the one offered by the law of the Republic of Moldova,
where the controller provides sufficient guarantees regarding the protection and
the exercise of the personal data subjects’ rights, that are laid down by contracts
concluded between controllers and natural or legal persons, on which provision
the transfer is carried out.
(7) The provisions referred to in paragraphs (3)-(6) shall not apply where
the transfer of personal data takes place in terms of the provisions of a by-law or
of an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Moldova, in particular if the
transfer is necessary for the purpose of preventing and investigating crimes. The
by-law or international treaty must contain guarantees regarding the protection of
personal data subject’s rights.
(8) The provisions referred to in paragraphs (1)-(6) shall not apply where
the processing of personal data is carried out solely for journalistic, literary or
20

artistic purposes, if such data are voluntarily and manifestly made public by the
personal data subject or if they are closely related to the personal data subject’s
status of a public person or to the public nature of the acts in which he is
involved.
(9) Transmission of personal data to states that do not ensure an adequate
level of protection may take place only:
a) with the personal data subject’s consent;
b) if the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of an
agreement or contract concluded between the personal data subject and the
controller or between the controller and a third party in the interest of the
personal data subject;
c) if the transfer is necessary in order to protect the life, physical integrity
or health of the personal data subject;
d) if transfer is made from a register which according to the law is
intended to provide information to the public and which is open to consultation
either by the public or by any person who demonstrates a legitimate interest, to
the extent that the conditions for consultation in particular cases laid down in law
are fulfilled;
e) the transfer is necessary for the accomplishment of an important public
interest, such as national defense, public order or national security, carrying out
in good order a criminal trial or ascertaining, exercising or defending a right in
court, on the condition that the personal data is processed solely in relation to
this purpose and only for longer period is necessary to achieve it.
Chapter VIII
ACCOUNTABILITY
Article 33. Accountability for violation of this law
For violation of this law, the convicted persons are liable under the civil,
administrative or criminal law.
Chapter IX
FINAL AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
Article 34.
(1)
This law shall come into force 6 months from the date of its
publication.
On the date of entering into force of this law, the Law on personal
data protection No. 17-XVI of February 15, 2007 (Official Gazette of the
Republic of Moldova, 2007, No. 107-111, art. 468) with further amendments and
completions shall be repealed.
(2)

21

(3) Within 6 months, the Government shall:
a) develop and submit to Parliament proposals on bringing the enacted
legislation in line with this law;
b) align its regulatory acts in compliance with this law;
c) ensure the conformity of regulatory acts of central public administration
authorities with this law.
(4) The processing operations of personal data that have been started prior
to the effective date of this law, shall be notified to the Centre within 30 days
from the date of entering into force of this law, in order to be compulsory
registered.

PRESIDENT OF THE PARLIAMENT
MARIAN LUPU
Chişinău, July 8, 2011.
No. 133.
(Official Gazette of the Republic of Moldova
no. 170-175/492 from 14 October 2011)

22

