Act n° 1.165
On the protection
Of personal data
(23 December 1993)

CHAPTER 1
AUTOMATED PROCESSING
OF PERSONAL DATA

SECTION I
- Principles and definitions
Article 1. – The automated or non-automated processing of personal data must not infringe
the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in Title III of the Constitution.
Personal data, in all of its forms, is any information that can be used to determine a natural
person’s identity (specific or identifiable). Is recognised as identifiable, a person who can be identified,
directly or indirectly, in particular with reference to an identification number or one or more specific marks
that form the person’s own physical, physiological, psychic, economic, cultural, or social identity.
The processing of personal data encompasses any operation or set of operations pertaining to
such information, regardless of the means employed. These may be collecting, recording, organising,
modifying, conversing, extracting, consulting or destroying information, as well as, exploiting,
interconnecting or approximating, the communication or the disclosure of such information or by any
other means of making it available.
The person in charge of the processing or 'data controller' shall be considered as the natural or
legal person, governed by private or public law, of public authority, agency or any other body which
alone or jointly with others determines the purposes of the data processing and means used and decides
that it is to be carried out.
The recipient of the processed data shall be considered as the natural or legal person, governed
by private law or public law, public authority, agency or other body that receives disclosed data, other
than the data subject, data controller, subcontractors and persons who, under the direct authority of the
controller or subcontractor, are authorised to process the data.
The person concerned by the processing of personal data (the ‘data subject’) is the person to
whom the data being processed pertains.

SECTION II
- On the personal data protection supervisory authority
Article 2. – A supervisory authority is hereby created, referred to as the Commission de
Contrôle des Informations Nominatives, with the task of monitoring and checking compliance with
legislative and regulatory provisions relating to the protection of personal data. The Commission has the
fully independent remit, under the present conditions defined by this law:
1° of receiving the declaration of processing by natural or legal persons governed by private law
as described in Article 6;

1

2° of issuing a reasoned opinion where processing is to be carried out by the persons described
in Article 7;
3° of issuing a reasoned opinion where processing is carried out for the purposes of research in
the field of heath, under the conditions defined in the first paragraph of Article 7-1;
4° of authorising automated data processing as described in Article 11-1;
5° of authorising the transfer of personal data to countries or bodies without an adequate level of
protection, on condition that the controller, or their representatives, affords sufficient guarantees to
enable compliance with the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subjects
as well as the exercising of the corresponding rights by the recipients concerned;
6° of establishing and updating the data processing register described in Article 10;
7° of monitoring, under the conditions defined by this law, the functioning of automated data
processing, examining complaints and petitions sent to it, as well as requests for the verification of
data to which interested parties cannot have direct access;
8° of reporting to the Prosecutor General facts constituting offences of which it becomes aware
in carrying out its duties;
9° of providing the competent authorities with proposed provisions for enactment in order to
establish either appropriate general measures to monitor and ensure the security of the processing,
or special measures, including, on an exceptional basis, the destruction of data-carrying media;
10° of making recommendations falling under the duties conferred upon it by the law;
11° of informing data subjects of the rights and obligations resulting from the present law, in
particular by communicating, upon request, to any person, or by publishing, if the Commission
considers it useful for public information, its deliberations, opinions or recommendations of a general
nature, except where such communication or publication would be of such a nature as to infringe
public security or respect for family and private life;
12° of issuing warnings or formal notices to data controllers, for the purposes and under the
conditions defined by the present law;
13° of being a party to legal proceedings for the purposes and under the conditions defined by
the present law;
14° of the public reporting on the application of this law and its implementing instruments; an
annual report on the activities of the Commission is to be remitted to the Minister of State and the
President of the National Council;
The Commission shall be consulted by the Minister of State during the preparation of
legislative and regulatory measures relating to the protection of human rights and freedoms
pertaining to the processing of personal data and may also be consulted in respect of any other
measure likely to affect the said rights and freedoms.
Article 3. – Any natural or legal person whose rights as conferred to them by this law or the
implementing instruments have been infringed, or persons having reason to believe that such rights
have been infringed, may refer the matter to the President of the Commission de Contrôle des
Informations Nominatives, in order to, if appropriate, implement the measures defined by Chapter
3.
Article 4. – The Commission is composed of six members, proposed for office as a result of
their expertise, as follows:
1. One member by the National Council;
2. One member by the Council of State;
3. One member by the Minister of State;

2

4. One member having the capacity of sitting judge by the Director of Judicial Services;
5. One member by the Town Council;
6. One member by the Economic and Social Council
Proposals shall be made independently of the authorities, councils, and institutions concerned
and according to the terms established by Sovereign Ordinance.
Article 5. – The members of the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives shall
be appointed by Sovereign Ordinance for a period of five years that may be renewed once. The
Commission shall, by absolute majority, elect a President and a Vice President.
In the performance of their duties, the members of the Commission shall not receive
instructions from any authority.
Except in the event of resignation or incapacity, the duties of a Member of the Commission
may not be revoked.
In the event of a tied vote (no majority), the President shall have the casting vote. Other rules
relating to the functioning of the Commission shall be defined by Sovereign Ordinance.
Article 5-1. – The members of the commission as well as any person assisting in its mission
shall be bound by professional secrecy as described in the Article 308 of the Criminal Code.
Furthermore, these persons shall be bound by an obligation of confidentiality with regards to the
facts and information to which they may have access or become aware while carrying out their
mission.
Article 5-2. – The Commission has at its command departments that are directed by the
President and placed under his or her authority. These departments of the Commission shall include
the Secretary General and Secretariat officials. The Secretary General shall be in charge of the
operations and coordination of the departments of the Commission.

Article 5-3. – Except where there are specific legal or regulatory provisions to the contrary,
the staff of the Commission shall be subject to the general rules applying to civil servants and State
officials.
However, hierarchical and disciplinary authority shall be exercised in the respect of such
persons by the President of the Commission.
Article 5-4. – The funding required for the operations of the Commission de Contrôle des
Informations Nominatives shall be listed in a specific chapter of the State budget.
As part of the preparation of the preliminary or amending State budget, the President of the
Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives shall remit proposals concerning revenue
and expenditure to the Minister of State.
Expenditure shall be ordered by the President or the Secretary General. The Commission’s
accounts must be audited on an annual basis under conditions laid down by Sovereign Ordinance.
Article 5-5. – The President of the Commission concludes all contracts and agreements
required for the proper functioning of its departments.
Article 5-6. – In the event of absence or incapacity of the President, he or she shall be
replaced by the Vice-President.

3

SECTION III
- On processing
Article 6. – With the exception of processing falling under the provisions laid down in Articles
7, 7-1 and 11-1, the automated processing of personal data, carried out by data controllers, natural
or legal persons governed by private law, shall be subject to a declaration to the President of the
Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives.
The declaration shall comprise a commitment that the processing complies with the
requirements of the law. The President of the Commission de Contrôle des Informations
Nominatives shall issue a receipt of declaration. The issuing of such a receipt shall authorise the
processing to take place, but shall not exonerate the data controller from their liability.
Nevertheless, standards may be enacted by Ministerial Order following a proposal or opinion
issued by the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives, setting out the criteria to
which certain categories of processing that manifestly do not infringe fundamental rights and
freedoms must adhere. Such processing may be the subject of a simplified declaration of
compliance, or be exempted from any obligation of declaration, under conditions laid down by the
aforementioned Ministerial Order.
Article 7. – The implementation of automated processing of personal data by data controllers,
legal persons governed by public law, public authorities, entities governed by private law with a duty
of general public interest or public service concession holders included on a list established by
Ministerial Order, shall be decided by the authorities or competent bodies following a reasoned
opinion issued by the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives.
Such decision and reasoned opinion accompanying it shall be published in the Journal of
Monaco under the conditions laid down by Sovereign Ordinance. Regarding the data processing
described in Article 11, only the purport of the Commission's opinion and the decision of the
competent authority or body shall be published.
If the Commission's opinion is unfavourable, the competent authority or body may only carry
out processing after having been authorised to do so by a reasoned Order issued by the Minister of
State or the Director of Judicial Services.
A general list of data processing carried out by the persons described in the first paragraph
shall be published before 1 April each year by Ministerial Order.
Article 7-1. – The persons in charge of the processing, Data controllers, whether natural or
legal persons, may only carry out the automated processing of personal data for the purposes of
research in the field of health after a reasoned opinion has been issued by the Commission de
Contrôle des Informations Nominatives.
Prior to the issue of such opinion, the latter may, under the conditions laid down by Sovereign
Ordinance, consult a competent public body in the field of health. Such consultation shall suspend
the period of time granted to the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives to issue its
opinion.
If the Commission’s opinion is unfavourable, the data controller may only be able to carry out
the processing after being authorised to do so by reasoned Ministerial Order.
These provisions shall not apply to data controllers who are acting in the field of biomedical
research as those defined by the law n° 1.265 du 23 December 2002 pertaining to the protection of
persons in biomedical research.
Data processing carried out in that field shall remain subject, according to the case, to the
provisions of Articles 6 or 7.

4

In all cases, the documents produced to support the request for an opinion or the declaration
must include, in addition to the items described in Article 8, a description of the research purposes,
the population concerned, the method of observation or investigation chosen, a justification for the
use of the personal data processed, the duration and organisational conditions of the research, the
data analysis methods, and, if applicable, the opinion issued by the Ethics Advisory Committee for
Biomedical Research set up by Act N° 1.265 of 23 December 2002. The Commission de Contrôle
des Informations Nominatives shall be bound by the terms of the said opinion.
Article 7-2. - The Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives consulted in the
context of Articles 7 and 7-1 shall rule within two months as from receipt of all required documents.
This period may be renewed once for an identical period if a reasoned decision is issued by the
President.
If an opinion requested of the Commission has not been issued upon expiry of the period laid
down in the foregoing paragraph, renewed if applicable, the opinion shall be considered to be
favourable.
Article 8. - Declarations, requests for opinions and requests for authorisation sent to the
Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives must, in order to be admissible, include the
following information.
1° the identity of the signatory and that of the data controller and, if applicable, the identity of
their representative in Monaco making the declaration, request for an opinion or request for
authorisation;
2° the methods, purposes and justification within the meaning of Article 10-2, and, if
applicable, a description of the data processing;
3° the name of the department or the identity of the persons responsible for using the data
and the measures taken to enable the right of access to data to be exercised;
4° the categories of persons who, as a result of their duties, have access to the data;
5° the categories of data, and data, that are being processed, their origin, the storage period,
categories of persons concerned by the processing and the categories of authorised recipients to
whom such data may be disclosed;
6° The cross-referencing, interconnection or other means of relating data, as well as any
transfers to third parties;
7° the measures taken to ensure the security of processing and of data, and to guarantee
secrets protected by the law;
8° An indication, where appropriate, that the processing is intended to communicate data
abroad, even where it takes place by means of operations performed beforehand outside Monaco.
Article 9. - Any change to any of the items listed in the previous Article must be the subject,
according to the case, of a declaration, request for opinion or request for authorisation.
The Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives shall be advised of the
cancellation of the processing.
- Except where there are legislative provisions to the contrary, data must not be stored in
named form beyond the period set out in the request for an opinion, declaration or request for
authorisation, except where it is to be processed for historical, statistical or scientific purposes. The
Commission may, however:
- establish a shorter period for data storage than has been set out in the declaration, request
for an opinion or request for authorisation;

5

- authorise data storage for a longer period than has been set out in the declaration, request
for an opinion or request for authorisation.

SECTION IV.- On the Data Processing Register
Article 10. - The Data Processing Register shall comprise:
1° the date of the declaration, request for an opinion or request for authorisation related to
the implementation of the processing;
2° The descriptions given on the declaration, request for an opinion or request for
authorisation, with the exception of the measures taken to ensure the security of the processing and
of the data, as well as the name of the department or identity of persons using the data;
3° the date of issue of the receipt of declaration, the date of the opinion or of the authorisation;
4° the dates and wording of the amendments made to the wording given in item 2° above;
5° the date at which the processing was cancelled, and the date where applicable, of the
cancellation of the registration.
The register may be consulted by any natural or legal person.
Automated data processing as described in Article 11 shall not be listed in the register.

CHAPTER 2
ON PERSONAL DATA
SECTION I
- Principles relating to the status of personal data and conditions for the lawful processing.
Article 10-1. - Personal data must be:
- collected and processed fairly and lawfully;
- collected for a specified, explicit and legitimate purpose and not be further processed in a
way incompatible with those purposes;
- Adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose for which they were collected
and/or further processed;
- accurate and, if necessary, updated; every reasonable measure must be taken to ensure
that data that are inaccurate or incomplete with regards to the purpose for which they were collected
or for which they were further processed, are erased or rectified;
- stored in such a form that permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is
necessary for the purpose for which the data were collected or for which they were further
processed.
The data controller or their representative must ensure compliance with these provisions.
Article 10-2 – The processing of personal data must be justified:
- by consent from the data subject(s), or;
- by compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller or their representative is
subject, or;
- by it being in the public interest, or
- by the performance of a contract or pre-contractual measures with the data subject, or;
- by the fulfilment of a legitimate motive on the part of the data controller or their representative
or by the recipient, on condition that the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data
subject are not infringed.

6

Article 11. – The processing of the data, whether automated or not, with or without biometric
data, shall only be carried out by judicial or administrative authorities, exclusively within the scope
of the duties legally conferred upon them:
- data of public security;
- data relating to offences, convictions or security measures;
- data with the purpose of preventing, investigating, recording or prosecuting criminal offences
or fulfilling criminal convictions or security measures;
Article 11-1 - By derogation of the provisions of the previous article, automated processing
of personal data may be carried out by data controllers other than judicial and administrative
authorities where:
- it relates to suspected unlawful activities, offences or security measures;
- it includes the biometric data required to a person’s identity;
- it is for the purpose of surveillance.
However, the said data processing shall only be carried out with prior authorisation from the
Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives if it is required in order to pursue an
essential legitimate aim and where the rights and freedoms of data subjects as described in Article
1 are respected.
The Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives shall deliver its decision within
two months of receipt of full supporting documentation. Such period may be renewed once for an
identical period if a reasoned decision is issued by the President.
If an authorisation requested of the Commission has not been issued upon expiry of the period
laid down in the previous paragraph, renewed if applicable, the opinion shall be considered to be
favourable.
Article 12. - No person may carry out data processing, whether automated or not, which
reveals, directly or indirectly, political, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership,
racial or ethnic origin, or data relating to health, including genetic data, data concerning the party's
sex life, lifestyle or relating to social welfare measures.
The provisions of the first paragraph shall not apply in the following cases:
- where the data subject has freely given their written and express consent, in particular under
Act n° 1.265 of 23 December 2002 pertaining to the protection of persons in biomedical research,
except where the Act provides that the ban described in the first paragraph may not be lifted by the
consent of the data subject. The said data subject may, at any time, withdraw their consent and
request that the data controller or user of processed data destroy or delete their data;
- where it is in the public interest, the processing described in Article 7, where processing has
been decided by the competent authorities or bodies following a reasoned opinion issued by the
Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives;
- where processing pertains to the members of an ecclesiastical institution or a body with a
political, religious, philosophical, humanitarian or trade-union aim, as part of company or association
objects and for the purposes of its functioning, on condition that the processing relates solely to the
members of the body or to persons who have regular contact with it in connection with its purposes
and that the data are not disclosed to a third party without the consent of the data subjects;
- where processing of the data is required for the purposes of preventive medicine, medical
diagnosis, the provision of care or treatment or the management of healthcare services and social
welfare schemes, or in the interests of research and where such data are processed by a health
professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy or by another person subject to an
equivalent obligation of secrecy;
- where data processing relates to information that has manifestly been made public by the
data subject;
- where data processing is required in order to record, exercise or in the defence of rights
before the Courts or meets a legal obligation.

7

Article 13. - Natural persons shall be entitled:
- to oppose, for legitimate reasons, their personal data being the subject of processing, except
where such processing is carried out in the exclusive scope of duties in the public interest by the
data controllers described in Article 7;
- to have access, under the conditions laid down in Section II, to their data, and having such
data amended if appropriate.
Except where there are legislative provisions to the contrary, relatives in ascending or
descending lines up to second-degree relatives or the surviving spouse of a deceased person may,
if they justify having an interest therein, exercise the rights provided for in the previous paragraph,
to the extent of the data relating to that person.
Legal persons shall be entitled:
- to oppose, for legitimate reasons, their personal data being processed, or to oppose, with
the agreement of their members, personal data relating to them being processed, except where
such processing is carried out in the exclusive scope of duties in the public interest by the data
controllers described in Article 7;
- to have access, under the conditions laid down in Section II, to their data, or, with the
agreement of their members, to access their personal data, and have such data amended if
appropriate.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the processing described in Article 11.
Article 14. - Persons from whom personal data are collected must be informed:
- of the identity of the data controller and, if applicable, the identity of their representative in
Monaco;
- of the purpose of processing;
- of the obligatory or optional nature of replies;
- of the consequences for them in failure to reply;
- of the identity of recipients or categories of recipients;
- of their right to oppose, access and amend their data;
- of their right to oppose the use on behalf of a third party, or the disclosure to a third party of
their personal data for the purposes of prospection, particularly commercial prospection.
Where personal data are not collected directly from the data subject, the data controller or
their representative must provide the data subject with the information listed in the previous
paragraph, except where the data subject has already been informed, cannot be informed, or where
this involves disproportionate measures with regard to the utility of the action or if collection or
disclosure of the data has been expressly provided for by legislative or regulatory provisions.
The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the processing described in Article 11.
Article 14-1. - All persons shall have the right not to be subject to a decision which produces
legal effects concerning them or significantly affecting them; and which is based solely on the
automated processing of data intended to evaluate their profile or certain aspects of their
personality.
A person may nevertheless be subject to a decision described in the previous paragraph if
such decision:
- is taken in the course of the entering into or performance of a contract, provided the
application for the entering into or performance of the contract, requested by the data subject, has
been satisfied or that there are suitable measures to safeguard their legitimate interests, such as
arrangements allowing them to express their point of view and have their application re-examined;
- or is authorised by legal or regulatory provisions which lay down measures to safeguard the
data subject's legitimate interests.
Article 14-2. Prior to the use of electronic communications networks to store information or
to gain access to information stored in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user, the subscriber
or user must be provided with clear and comprehensive information about the purpose of the
processing, and the means available to them to refuse such processing.

8

An electronic communications network shall be defined as transmission equipment and,
where applicable, routing or switching equipment and other resources that permit the conveyance
of signals by wire, by radio, by optical or other electromagnetic means.
It shall be prohibited to make access to a service available through an electronic
communications network conditional upon the acceptance, by the subscriber or the user concerned,
of the processing of data stored in their terminal equipment, unless storage or technical access is
for the sole purpose of transmitting or facilitating the transmission of a communication via an
electronic communications network, or is strictly necessary in order to provide a service expressly
requested by the subscriber or user.
It shall be prohibited to make access to a service available through an electronic
communications network conditional upon the acceptance, by the subscriber or the user concerned,
of the processing of data stored in their terminal equipment, unless storage or technical access is
for the sole purpose of transmitting or facilitating the transmission of a communication via an
electronic communications network, or is strictly necessary in order to provide a service expressly
requested by the subscriber or user.
Article 14-3. – Without the express consent of the data subject, personal data collected by
electronic certification service providers in order to issue and store certificates relating to electronic
signatures must be collected directly from the data subject and shall only be processed for the
purposes for which the data were collected.

SECTION II.
- On access to data
Article 15. - All persons justifying their identity may obtain, from the data controller or their
representative:
1° information at least as to the purpose of the processing operation, the categories of data
concerned, and the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data are disclosed;
2° confirmation as to whether or not data related to him or her is being processed;
3° such data communicated in written, non-coded form, conforming to the stored data;
information of a medical nature shall be communicated to the data subject or the doctor that they
have appointed for this purpose. If an opinion to the contrary is justified on medical grounds, data
may be communicated only to the said doctor. The implementing conditions of this item shall be
determined by Sovereign Ordinance;
4° information relating to the automated reasoning process having led to the decision
described in Article 14-1.
Communication of the data must take place within the month following receipt of the request.
However, the President of the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives may, having
obtained a favourable opinion from the Commission, grant additional time or grant exemption from
the obligation to reply to requests that are abusive as a result of their number or repeated or
systematic nature, where the data subject has been duly informed.
Article 15-1 - A person whose personal data are processed as described in Article 11 may
refer the matter to the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives by making an
application for a verification of said the data.
The President of the Commission shall designate a Member to fulfil the role of sitting judge
or, in the event of his/her incapacity, the Member proposed by the Council of State, to perform
checks and make the necessary amendments, if appropriate. The latter may be assisted by a
supervisory authority official who has been duly mandated and sworn in.

9

The President of the Commission shall inform the data subject that such checks have been
made. In agreement with the data controller or their representative, the President may bring to the
knowledge of the data subject such data that do not breach public security.
Article 15-2. - The data controller or their representative must take appropriate measures in
order to:
1. supplement or amend, ex officio, data that are incomplete or erroneous where they become
aware of its incomplete or inaccurate nature;
2. delete, ex officio, data that might have been obtained by fraudulent, injurious or unlawful
means, where they become aware of such methods;
3. delete the named form of data upon expiry of the storage period established in the
declaration, request for an opinion or request for authorisation, or upon expiry of the period fixed by
the Commission, pursuant to Article 9.
Article 16. - A data subject may demand that their data be rectified, supplemented, clarified,
updated or deleted where such data prove to be imprecise, incomplete, equivocal, obsolete, or if
the collection; recording, disclosure or storage of such data is prohibited.
Upon request from the interested party, a copy of the amended data that have been recorded
shall be issued free of charge.
If data have been disclosed to recipients, they must be notified of the amended data or the
deletion of the said data, except where an exemption is granted by the President of the Commission
de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives.

SECTION III
- Secure and confidential processing
Article 17. - The data controller or their representative must implement appropriate technical
and organisational measures to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful destruction,
accidental loss, corruption, unauthorised disclosure or access, in particular where processing
involves the transmission of data over a network, and against all other unlawful forms of processing.
All measures implemented must ensure an adequate level of security with regard to the risks
posed by processing and by the nature of the data to be protected.
Where the data controller or their representative makes use of the services of one or more
service providers, they must ensure that the latter are able to comply with the obligations laid down
in the two previous paragraphs.
Processing carried out by a service provider must be governed by a written agreement
between the service provider and the data controller or their representative, stipulating in particular
that the service provider and members of their staff are acting solely upon instructions from the data
controller or their representative alone and that the obligations described in the two previous
paragraphs are also incumbent upon the said service provider.
If the service provider wishes to use the services of one or more subcontractors in order to
provide all or some of the services set out in the aforementioned agreement, the provisions of the
previous paragraph shall apply thereto.
Article 17-1. - Where processing is carried out pursuant to Articles 11 and 11-1, the data
controller shall also take specific technical and organisational measures to safeguard the data. The
list of measures that can be taken in this regard shall be established by Sovereign Ordinance.
Such measures shall be aimed in particular at determining a list of names of authorised
persons who alone shall have access, strictly confined to the performance of their duties, to
premises and facilities used for processing and the data being processed.

10

The data controller shall also ensure that the recipients of processed data can be clearly
identified.

CHAPTER 3
ON MONITORING DILIGENT PROCESSING
Article 18. - The Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives shall proceed with
the necessary verifications and investigations in order to monitor the implementation of the
processing, either by its Members, or by officials from its Secretariat, or by investigators appointed
by the President following a proposal made by the Commission and subject to the obligations laid
down in Article 5-1. Officials and investigators shall be mandated and sworn in for this purpose.
The Officials or investigators described in the previous paragraph shall have in their
possession a letter of appointment from the President of the Commission de Contrôle des
Informations Nominatives explicitly stating the name and address of the natural or legal person
concerned, as well as the purpose of the appointment.
The verification operations may only be carried out between 6 am and 9 pm or, outside of
these times, when access by the public is authorised, or when an activity is in progress.
During the aforementioned operations, the officials or investigators shall carry out all
necessary verifications; consult any processing, request disclosure or copies, regardless of the
means used, of any professional documents and collect from any competent persons information
that is useful to the purpose of their mission. They shall have access to any computer programs and
data and demand the transcripts, in any form appropriate, in documents directly used for the purpose
of the verification.
However, only a doctor designated by the President of the Commission de Contrôle des
Informations Nominatives among those present on the list established by the Council of Physicians
of Monaco and comprising at least five names qualified to demand to be communicated personal
medical information included in a treatment necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine,
medical research, medical diagnosis, the provision of care or treatment or the management of
healthcare services, and that are implemented by a member of a regulated healthcare profession.
The appointed medical practitioner shall transmit to the Commission de Contrôle des Informations
Nominatives only that information necessary for the purpose of the verification without any
reference, under any circumstances, of any personal information to which he/she may have access.
In the context of the verification mission of the Commission, the persons interviewed are
required to provide the requested information unless they are bound by professional secrecy as
specified in the article 308 of the Penal Code.
Outside of these on-the-spot verifications and by invitation, the officials or investigators shall
carry out any observations judged relevant, they shall in particular from an online public service,
consult data freely accessible or made accessible, either by imprudence, by negligence or due to
an act by a third party, where necessary by accessing and by staying in the automated data
processing systems, the time necessary to make the observations, they may transcribe the data in
any form appropriate in documents directly used for the purpose of the verification.
A report of the observations, verifications, and visits carried out shall be prepared in
application of the present article. This report shall be prepared in the presence of both parties when
the verifications and visits are conducted on-the-spot or on invitation.
Article 18-1. – To carry out the missions described in the previous article, the aforementioned
officials or investigators shall, after notifying the person responsible for the private business
premises or his representative of his right to oppose, gain access to the site, premises, venues,
facilities, or establishments being used to implement the processing of personal data and intended
for professional use, excluding sections of these that are part of the private domicile. The operations
shall be carried out in the presence of the person responsible for the premises or his representative.

11

When the right to oppose is exercised, the operations shall take place only after the
permission is granted by the President of the court of the first instance, to whom the matter shall be
referred from the President of the Commission. The President of the Court rules by taking into
consideration the motive or lack of motive to justify the right to oppose.
The terms of paragraph 3 of the article 22 do not apply in the exercise of the right to oppose.
However, when the urgency or risk of the destruction or imminent disappearance of pieces or
documents justifies it, the operations mentioned in the first paragraph may be carried out without
the person responsible for the premises or representative being able to oppose the verification
operations. In this situation, all interested parties to which the aforementioned operations cause
grievance may request that the President of the court of the first instance, seized as in expedited
proceedings declare the invalidity of these operations and any evidence collected during these
operations, which must be destroyed.
Article 18-2. – When there are reasons to suspect that the implementation of the processing
may not be in accordance with the provisions of the present law, the aforementioned officials or
investigators shall, with the prior permission from the President of the court of the first instance, to
whom the matter shall be referred by the President of the Commission de Contrôle des Informations
Nominatives, and seized as in expedited proceedings, gain access to the premises.
The request shall state the factual and legal nature to justify the aforementioned operations
in order to enable the President of the court of the first instance to assess its admissibility. The court
order authorising the operations is effective by the minute hereof. It may be subject to legal recourse
as specified in the article 852 of the Code of Civil Procedure within eight days following the
verification. This appeal is not suspensive.
When the application is granted, the President of the court of the first instance may declare
the invalidity of these operations and any evidence collected during these operations, which must
be destroyed.
The totality of these operations are carried out in the presence of the person responsible for
the premises or their representative or, in case of hindrance or impossibility to attend, of at least
one witness, requisitioned for this purpose by the persons referred to in the first paragraph of the
article 18 and not under their authority.
Article 19. - If irregularities are noted against the data controller, the President of the
Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives shall ask one of the members of the
Commission to draw up a report of which the data controller shall be notified. This latter, within a
delay of one month from the notification, may formulate to the President, his observations.
At the conclusion of a procedure carried out in the presence of both parties, the President of
the Commission de Contrôle des Informations Nominatives may decide to send a warning to the
data controller. He may also send a formal notice to put an end to the said irregularities or eliminate
the effects thereof.
Irregularities constituting criminal offences shall be passed on without delay to the Prosecutor
General.
If the formal notice remains unheeded upon expiry of the period given, the President of the
Commission after having invited the data controller to provide further explanations within another
month may issue an injunction to end such irregularities or to eliminate the effects thereof. At the
expiration of this period, if the injunction was not acted upon, the President of the Commission may
refer the President of the court of the first instance, seized as in expedited proceedings that he shall
order the end of such irregularities or eliminate the effects thereof, without prejudice to criminal
penalties incurred or applications for compensation from data subjects having suffered harm. A fine
may also be issued with this decision. The decisions taken by the President of the Commission in
application of the present article shall state the reasons upon which they are based.

12

CHAPTER 3bis
ON THE TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA
Article 20. - The transfer of personal data outside the Principality may only take place subject
to the condition that the country or organisation that is to be the recipient of the transfer has an
adequate level of protection.
The adequate nature of the level of protection afforded by the third country must be
appreciated in the light of all circumstances relating to the transfer of personal data, in particular the
nature of the data, the purpose, the duration of processing operation(s) envisaged, the rule of law
in force in the country in question, and the professional rules and security measures complied with
in the said country.
Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions, the Commission de Contrôle des Informations
Nominatives shall make available to any interested party a list of countries with an adequate level
of protection within the meaning of the previous paragraph.
Article 20-1. - The transfer of personal data to a country or organisation that does not provide,
within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 20, an adequate level of protection, may
nevertheless take place if the data subject has consented to the transfer or if the transfer is required:
- to safeguard that person's life;
- to safeguard public interests;
- to ensure the compliance with legal obligations with regards to the recording, exercising or
defence of legal rights;
- for the consultation, under proper conditions, of a public register which, by virtue of
legislative or regulatory provisions, is intended to provide information to the public and which is open
to consultation either by the public in general or by any person who can provide proof of a legitimate
interest;
- as part of a contract between the data controller or representative and the data subject, or
pre-contractual measures taken at the latter's request;
- the conclusion or as part of a contract concluded or to be concluded in the interests of the
data subject, between the data controller or representative and a third party.
Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, the Commission de Contrôle
des Informations Nominatives may authorise, on the basis of a duly substantiated application, a
transfer of personal data to a country or organisation that does not have an adequate level of
protection within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 20 if the data controller or their
representative, as well as the recipient of data, offer sufficient guarantees to ensure compliance with
the protection of the rights and freedoms described in Article 1. Such safeguards may in particular
result from appropriate contractual clauses.
The data controller must comply with the Commission's decision.

CHAPTER 4
PENALTIES
Article 21. - The following shall be punished by imprisonment for one to six months and by a
fine as described in item 3 of Article 26 of the Criminal Code or only one of those two penalties:
1° persons carrying out or attempting to carry out the automated processing of personal data
or continuing or attempting to continue to carry out such processing without having performed the
required prior formalities or having obtained the authorisations laid down in Articles 6, 7, 7-1 and
11-1;
2° persons who, apart from the exemptions laid down by the law, voluntarily refrain from
communicating to a data subject their personal data, or from amending or deleting any of such

13

information which has proved to be imprecise, incomplete, and equivocal or collected in violation of
the law;
3° persons who, as a result of imprudent or negligent behaviour, do not maintain or cause to
be maintained the security of personal data or divulge or allow to be divulged data which has the
effect of damaging the reputation of a person or encroaching upon their private or family life;
4° persons who retain personal data beyond the storage period indicated in the declaration,
request for an opinion or request for authorisation or beyond the period fixed by the Commission de
Contrôle des Informations Nominatives;
5° persons who, apart from the cases described in Articles 20 and 20-1, transfer personal
data or cause it to be transferred to countries or organisations not affording an adequate level of
protection;
6° persons who, failing to observe Article 14, collect personal data without the data subject
having been informed, except where informing that person proves to be impossible or involves
disproportionate efforts, or if the collection or disclosure of such data is expressly provided for by
applicable legislative or regulatory provisions:
7° persons failing to observe the provisions of Article 14-2.
Article 22 - The following shall be punished by imprisonment for three months to one year
and by a fine as described in item 4 of Article 26 of the Criminal Code or only one of those two
penalties:
1° persons who, apart from the exemptions laid down by the law, collect or cause to be
collected, record or cause to be recorded, store or cause to be stored, use or cause to be used,
personal data that are reserved for certain authorities, establishments, organisations and natural
persons or data that are likely to reveal racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or
philosophical beliefs, trade-union membership, or data concerning health, including genetic data,
data pertaining to sex life, lifestyle or social welfare measures;
2° persons who collect or cause to be collected personal data by using or inciting to be used
for fraudulent, injurious or unlawful means;
3° persons who deliberately prevent or hinder investigations carried out in application of the
law or do not provide information or documents requested;
4° persons who knowingly communicate or cause to be communicated inaccurate information
or documents either to data subjects or to the persons in charge of the necessary investigations;
5° persons who collect or cause to be collected, record or cause to be recorded, store or
cause to be stored, use or cause to be used personal data despite the opposition of data subjects,
apart from the cases provided for by the law;
6° persons who, with the exception of the competent authorities, knowingly collect or cause
to be collected, record or cause to be recorded, store or cause to be stored, use or cause to be used
personal data with or without biometric data pertaining to offences, convictions or security measures
or which have the purpose of preventing, investigating, establishing or prosecuting criminal offences
or the execution of criminal convictions or security measures;
7° persons who, knowingly, collect or cause to be collected, record or cause to be recorded,
store or cause to be stored, use or cause to be used personal data relating to suspected unlawful
activities, offences, security measures or including biometric data that are required to check persons'
identities or are intended for the purposes of surveillance without having obtained the authorisation
laid down in Article 11-1;
8° persons who knowingly communicate with unqualified persons in order to receive from
them data, the disclosure of which may damage the reputation of a natural person or encroach upon
their private and family life;

14

9° persons knowingly use or cause to be used personal data for other purposes than those
described in the declaration, request for an opinion or request for authorisation.
Article 23. - Any conviction handed down pursuant to the two previous Articles shall, ipso
jure, lead to the ceasing of the effects of the declaration or authorisation and removal from the Data
Processing Register.
The Court may, furthermore, order the confiscation and destruction, without compensation,
of media containing incriminated personal data and prohibit re-registration for a period not
exceeding three years and of no less than six months.
The Court may also order a legal person governed by private law to be constrained, jointly
with their corporate representative, to pay a fine issued against the latter.
Article 23-1. - No interconnections may be created between an extract from police records
and any other file or processing of personal data held by any person whatsoever or by a department
not falling under the responsibility of the Director of Judicial Services.

CHAPTER V
SCOPE
Article 24. - The provisions of the present Act shall apply to the automated processing of
personal data:
- carried out by a data controller established in Monaco;
- carried out in Monaco, even if such processing is destined only for use abroad;
- where the data controller is established abroad, but makes use of processing facilities
located in Monaco; in such case, the data controller must appoint a representative established in
Monaco, who is to make the declaration, request for an opinion or request for authorisation and
upon whom the obligations laid down by the law are incumbent, without prejudice to legal action
that might be initiated against the data controllers themselves.
If automated processing of personal data carried out abroad is accessible for consultation in
Monaco only, by automated means, users in the Principality shall be subject to the provisions of the
present Act, with the exception of the provisions of Sections III and IV of Chapter 1.
Article 24-1. - The provisions of the present Act, with the exception of those described in
Sections III and IV of Chapter I, shall apply to personal data contained in or likely to be included in
a non-automated file or data storage medium, namely in a structured set of personal data accessible
according to determined criteria.
Article 24-2. The provisions of the Act shall not apply:
1° to processing carried out pursuant to Article 15 of the Constitution;
2° to processing carried out by the judicial authorities for the purposes of proceedings initiated
before the Courts and International mutual assistance procedures;
3° automated data processing carried out and non-automated files of personal data held by
a natural person solely as part of their personal or domestic activities.
Article 25. - The provisions of Articles 12, 13, 14, 15, 15-2 and 16 and those of Chapter 3bis
shall not apply to the automated processing of non-automated files or data storage media of
personal data deployed solely for the purposes of literary and artistic expression, or solely in order
to exercise journalistic activities, in compliance with applicable laws and rules of ethics, insofar as
such exemptions and derogations are required to reconcile the right to a private life with the rules
governing freedom of expression.

15

The provisions of the previous paragraph shall not form an obstacle to the implementation of
laws pertaining to the printed or audio-visual press which lay down conditions for exercising a right
of reply and which provide for, limit, grant compensation for and, if applicable, punish, encroachment
upon private life and damage to personal reputations.
Article 25-1. - The implementing conditions of this Act shall be established by Sovereign
Ordinance.
Article 26. - Authorisations granted by the Commission de Contrôle des Informations
Nominatives by virtue of Articles 9, 11-1 and 20-1 may, in order to safeguard the interests protected
by this Act, be accompanied by specific conditions.
They may be withdrawn if the beneficiary breaches the provisions of the said Act or its
implementing instruments, exceeds the limitations of the authorisation granted to them or fails to
comply with the conditions stated therein. Prior to any decision, the interested party shall be called
upon to provide an explanation and/or their explanations shall be heard.

16

