PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION LAW
(Official Gazette of Montenegro 79/08 and 70/09)
I GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
Protection of data relating to individuals shall be provided under the conditions
and in the way laid down by this law, in accordance with the principles and standards
contained in the ratified international human rights treaties and generally recognised
rules of international law.
Article 2
The processing of data relating to individuals (hereinafter referred to as “personal
data”) may be carried out for a lawful purpose or with the prior consent of the data
subject.
Personal data may be processed only to the extent necessary to achieve the purpose
of processing and in a way compatible with the aims for which they were collected.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, personal data may be processed for
statistical purposes or for the purposes of scientific research, subject to the provision of
appropriate safeguards.
Where the personal data filing system controller makes personal data available for
processing for statistical purposes or for the purposes of scientific research, such data
must be made available in a way that the identity of the individual is not disclosed.
Article 3
Personal data undergoing processing must be accurate and complete and must be
kept up to date.
If the length of time for which processed personal data are to be stored is not laid
down by the law, personal data which allow the identity of an individual to be established
may be stored only for the time required to achieve the purpose for which personal data
are processed.
Article 4
Protection of personal data shall be provided to every individual, regardless of
nationality, domicile, race, skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other belief,
ethnicity, social origin, property, education, social position or other personal attributes.
Article 5
This law must be complied with by the state authority, public administration body,
local self-government and local administration authority, commercial enterprise and
other legal person, entrepreneur and natural person, with the seat or domicile in
Montenegro, which carries out processing of personal data or establishes personal data
filing systems in the way and for the purpose established by law or its legal act
(hereinafter referred to as “personal data filing system controller”).
The provisions of this law also apply to a personal data filing system controller
whose seat or domicile is outside Montenegro if the equipment for processing of personal
data is situated in Montenegro, unless such equipment is used only for purposes of
transit through the territory of Montenegro.

In the circumstances referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the controller shall
designate a representative or an attorney with the seat or domicile in the territory of
Montenegro who shall be responsible for the application of this law.
Article 6
Where the purpose of personal data and the way of their processing is laid down by
law, the personal data filing system controller shall be determined by such law.
Article 7
This law shall apply to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by
automatic means, and to the processing otherwise than by automatic means which forms
part of a personal data filing system or is intended to form part of a personal data filing
system.
If the processing of personal data is carried out by electronic means, the personal
data filing system controller must ensure that the information system automatically
records the recipients of personal data, data which were processed, legal grounds for the
use of personal data, time of logging on to the system and time of logging out of the
system.
Article 8
The provisions of this law, save for the provisions on supervision, shall not apply to
the processing of personal data for the purposes of defence, national and public security
nor in pre-trial and criminal proceedings, unless otherwise provided by a separate law.
The provisions of this law shall not apply to the processing of personal data by a
natural person in the course of a personal activity.
The rights of data subjects provided for by this law may be restricted only when
such restriction constitutes a necessary measure to conduct pre-trial and criminal
proceedings and only for the duration of such proceedings.
Article 9
Specific terms used in this law shall have the following meaning:
1) 'personal data' shall mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person;
2) 'processing of personal data' shall mean any operation which is performed upon
personal data, whether or not by automatic means, such as collection, recording,
organization, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, use, consultation,
disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available,
alignment or combination, blocking, erasure or destruction, as well any other
operation performed upon personal data;
3) 'personal data filing system' shall mean any structured, whether centralized,
decentralized or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis, set of personal
data which are undergoing processing and which may be accessible according to
the specific criteria;
4) 'recipient of personal data' shall mean a public authority, public administration
body, self-government or local administration authority, commercial enterprise or
2

5)

6)
7)

8)
9)

another legal person, entrepreneur of a natural person, to whom personal data
may be made available for use in accordance with the law;
'processor of personal data' shall mean a public authority, public administration
body, self-government or local administration authority, commercial enterprise or
other legal person, entrepreneur of a natural person, who performs tasks
concerning the processing of personal data on behalf of the controller, in
accordance with this law;
'consent' shall mean a free statement given in writing or orally on record by
which an individual signifies his agreement to personal data relating to him
being processed for a specific purpose;
'special categories of data' shall mean personal data concerning racial or ethnic
origin, political, religious or other beliefs, social origin, trade-union membership,
data concerning health, sex life or sexual orientation, biometric data, as well as
data from registers of misdemeanour and criminal convictions;
'biometric data' shall mean data on physical or physiological features intrinsic to
every natural persons, which are specific, unique and unchangeable and capable
of revealing the identity of an individual either directly or indirectly;
'data subject' shall mean a natural person who is identified or can be identified,
directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to
one or more factors specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic,
cultural or social identity.
II PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
1. Conditions

Article 10
Personal data may be processed with the prior consent of the data subject.
Personal data may be processed without the consent of the data subject when
processing is necessary:
1) for the performance of legal obligations to which the controller is subject or the
exercise of authority vested in the controller;
2) for the protection of life and health of an individual who is not in the position to
give his consent personally;
3) in order to take steps prior to entering into a contract and for the performance of
a contract in accordance with the law;
4) for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise
of public authority falling within the scope of work or competence of the personal
data filing system controller or personal data recipient;
5) for the purposes of a legitimate interest pursued by the personal data filing
system controller or by the recipient of personal data, except where such interest
should be restricted in order to ensure exercise and protection of rights and
freedoms of individuals.
The consent referred to in paragraph of this Article shall be given by the guardian
on behalf of a person deprived of the capacity to transact business and by the parents or
3

adoptive parents on behalf of a minor, unless the consent is contrary to the interests of
the minor.
The consent to the processing of personal data on behalf a deceased shall be given
by his successors determined in accordance with the law governing succession, unless
the deceased has forbidden the processing of personal data.
Article 11
The data subject may request the personal data filing system controller to erase
personal data which have not been obtained from him directly.
In the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the personal data filing system
controller must erase personal data from the personal data filing system within 30 days
from the submission of the request.
Where personal data are processed for statistical purposes or for the purposes of
scientific research, the data subject may request the erasure of his personal data only if
such data are capable of revealing his identity.
Article 12
Personal data concerning children shall be processed in accordance with the law,
in a manner which is in the best interest of the child.
Article 13
The special categories of data may be processed where:
1) the data subject has given his consent to the processing of those data;
2) processing is necessary for the purpose of detecting, preventing or diagnosing of
data subject illness or carrying out his medical treatment, as well for the
improvement of health services, in so far as the processing is done by a health
worker or other person subject to the duties of keeping professional secret;
3) processing is necessary to protect the life, health or interests of the data subject
or of another person where the data subject is not in the position to give his
consent personally, as well as in other cases provided for by law;
4) the data subject has manifestly made personal data available to the public or
the processing is necessary for the establishment or protection of legal interest;
5) processing is carried out in the course of activities of an association or any
other non-profit-seeking body with political, religious or other aims, provided
that the data relates solely to such association or other organisation and that
the data are not disclosed without the consent of the data subjects.
The special categories of data shall be distinctively designated and protected in
order to prevent unauthorised access.
The manner of designating of personal data referred to in paragraph 2 of this
Article shall be established by the ministry responsible for public administration affairs.
Article 14
The processing of personal data relating to criminal offences, criminal or
misdemeanour penalties or security measures may be carried out only by or under the
supervision of the competent state authority, provided that measures to safeguard
personal data are provided in accordance with the law.
Article 15
4

The processing of personal data from publicly available sources for the purposes of
direct marketing may not be carried out without the consent of the data subject.
Where, in the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the data subject has
given his consent to the processing of his personal data, such consent may be revoked.
The personal data filing system controller may use the data from the filing system
which were collected in the exercise of lawful authority or carrying out of an activity for
the purposes of direct marketing, without the consent of the data subject.
In the case referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the data subject may prohibit
the use of his personal data for the purposes of direct marketing.
2. The carrying out of processing by way of a processor
Article 16
The personal data filing system controller may entrust specific activities concerning
processing of personal data to a processor of personal data by way of a contract, which
must be in writing.
The contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall stipulate mutual rights
and obligations of the personal data filing system controller and the personal data
processor.
The activities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be entrusted only to a
personal data processor registered for carrying out the processing of personal data and
providing guarantees in respect of the technical, personnel and organizational measures
for the protection of personal data in accordance with this law.
The personal data processor must destroy or return the personal data to the
personal data fling system controller after the processing.
3. Making data available for use
Article 17
The personal data filing system controller must, on request, give to the recipient
personal data he requires for the purpose of performing legal obligations and exercising
authority within his scope of work or competence.
The request referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall include information on
the category and purpose of personal data, legal basis for the use of the data and the
length of time the data are to be used.
Article 18
Personal data may be used only for the period of time necessary to achieve the
purpose of use, unless otherwise provided by a separate law.
After the expiry the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the recipient of
personal data must erase the data, unless otherwise provided by a separate law.
Article 19
The personal data filing system controller shall keep records of the data made
available for use, the recipients of personal data, the purpose they have been given for
and the legal basis for use of personal data.
5

4. Obligation to inform data subject about the processing, updating and erasure
of personal data
Article 20
The personal data controller or processor of personal data must provide a data
subject from whom data relating to himself are collected for the purpose of processing
with the following information:
1) his name, domicile or temporary residence, or seat respectively, as well the
identity of his representative in the case of personal data filing system
controller;
2) the purpose of data processing;
3) the recipients or categories of recipients of the data;
4) the obligation to disclose personal data;
5) possible consequences of the denial to disclose personal data;
6) the existence of the right of access to and the right to rectify the data
concerning him.
The information set out in paragraph 1 clauses 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall be given only in
so far as such information is necessary, having regard to the specific circumstances in
which the data are processed, to guarantee fair processing.
Article 21
Where the data have not been obtained from the data subject, the personal data
controller must provide the data subject with the following information no later than at
the time when the processing begins:
1) his name, domicile or temporary residence, or seat respectively, as well the
identity of his representative;
2) the purposes of the data processing;
3) the categories of data o be processed;
4) the recipients of personal data;
5) the existence of the right of access to and the right to rectify the data
concerning him.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, the personal data filing system
controller shall not be bound to provide the data subject with information when personal
data are made available for use for statistical purposes or for the purposes of scientific
research, if the provision of such information proves impossible or would involve a
disproportionate effort.
In the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the personal data filing system
controller must provide appropriate safeguards.
Article 22
The personal data filing system controller must keep personal data up to date.
When he finds that personal data are incomplete or inaccurate, the personal data
filing system controller must supplement or alter them.
Article 23
6

The personal data filing system controller must, on request of the data subject,
erase personal data if their processing does not comply with the law.
The personal data filing system controller must inform the data subject and the
recipient of personal data about the alteration or supplementing of personal data referred
to in Article 22 paragraph 2 of this law, as well as about the erasure of personal data
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, no later than 8 days from the day of alteration,
supplementing or erasure.
5. Measures to safeguard personal data during processing
6.
Article 24
The personal data filing system controller and the recipient of personal data must
implement technical, personnel and organizational safeguards to protect personal data
against loss, destruction, unauthorized access, alteration, publicizing and abuse.
The safeguards referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be appropriate to the
nature and character of the data processed.
Where personal data are stored for longer periods of time for statistical purposes
and for the purposes of scientific research, the safeguards referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Article shall be provided in accordance with a separate law.
Technical measures and standards, as well as personnel and organisational
safeguards shall be established by the personal data filing system controller.
The personal data filing system controller shall allow access to personal data filing
systems and keep records of the recipients of personal data in accordance with his
internal act.
Article 25
Officers and other employees carrying out the processing of personal data in a state
authority, public administration body, local self-government and local administration
authority, commercial enterprise, processor of personal data, other legal person, as well
as with an entrepreneur and another natural person must keep the secrecy of personal
data they become privy to in the course of performance of their tasks.
6. Records and registers of personal data filing systems
Article 26
The personal data filing system controller shall keep records of personal data filing
system he establishes.
The records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall include:
1) the name of the personal data filing system;
2) the legal basis for processing of personal data;
3) the name, seat or domicile or residence respectively and the address of filing
system controller;
4) the purpose of processing;
5) the categories of data subjects;
6) the categories of data contained in the personal data filing system;
7) the manner of collecting and storing personal data;
8) the time limits for storing and use of personal data;
7

9) the name of the recipient of personal data, his seat or domicile or residence
respectively, and his address;
10) information on transfer of personal data from Montenegro together with the
name of the country, international organization or other foreign recipient of
personal data to which data are being transferred, the purpose of the transfer as
established by a ratified international treaty, law, or by a written agreement;
11) Internal rules of the filing system controller regarding processing and
safeguarding personal data, which allow a preliminary assessment to be made
of the appropriateness of the measures taken to ensure security of processing.
The template and manner of keeping the records referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article shall be established by the ministry responsible for public administration affairs.
Article 27
The personal data filing system controller must, prior to establishing a personal
data filing system obtain the consent of the supervisory authority.
The personal data filing system controller must accompany the request for consent
with the information set out in Article 26, paragraph 2 of this law.
If the supervisory authority fails to issue the reply referred to in paragraph 2 of this
Article within 30 days from its submission, it shall be considered that the consent has
been given.
Article 28
The personal data filing system controller must obtain the consent of the
supervisory authority prior to the altering of data referred to in Article 26, paragraph 2 of
this Law.
If the supervisory authority fails to issue the reply referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article within 30 days from its submission, it shall be considered that the consent has
been given.
The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to personal data filing
systems where the purpose of personal data or categories of personal data to be
processed, categories of data subjects, recipients or categories of recipients of personal
data, as well as the length of time the data are to be stored are established by the law.
Article 29
A register of records of personal data filing systems referred to in Article 26 of this
law (hereinafter referred to as “the Register”) shall be kept by the supervisory authority.
The information set out in Article 26, paragraph 2 of this law shall be entered into
the Register.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, information on personal data filing
systems shall not be entered into the Register when so required by the interests of
defence, national or public security, in line with an opinion delivered by the supervisory
authority.
Article 30
The records from the Register shall available to the public in a way established by
the rules on work of the supervisory authority, in accordance with the law.
8

III SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING
1. Biometric measures
Article 31
The establishment and comparison of personal traits for the purpose of
establishing and proving the identity of an individual (hereinafter referred to as
“biometric measures”) may be performed in accordance with this law.
Article 32
The state authority, public administration body, local self-government and local
administration authority, commercial enterprise or other legal person and an
entrepreneur exercising public authority (hereinafter referred to as “the public sector”)
may carry out biometric measures in connection with the entry into business or official
premises and presence at work of employees, if such measures are provided for by the
law.
The measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be provided for if so
necessary for the protection of individuals and property or for the protection of secrecy of
data or business secrets, where these aims cannot be achieved in other way or where this
is required in order to discharge of the obligations stemming from international treaties
and establish the identity of individuals crossing the state borders.
2. Records on entry and exit from business or official premises
Article 33
In order to protect the safety of individuals and property within business or official
areas, the public sector, commercial enterprise, other legal person and entrepreneur may
request an individual entering business or official areas to:
1) state the reasons for entering business or official areas;
2) give personal data;
3) present an identity document for inspection, if so required.
The identity document referred to in paragraph 1, clause 3 of this Article shall
mean a document on establishment of identity issued in accordance with the law.
The personal data referred to in paragraph 1, clause 2 of this Article shall mean the
name, category and number of the identity document, domicile or residence, address and
employment.
Article 34
Records may be kept on entries into and exits from business or official areas.
The records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may contain the personal data
referred to in Article 33 paragraph 3 of this law, date, time and the reason for entering
and exiting business or official areas.
The records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall have the force of public
documents if the data are used for the purpose of protecting a child and carrying out
police, intelligence and security affairs.
9

Personal data from the records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be
stored no longer that one year from the day when they were collected, whereupon they
shall be erased, unless otherwise provided by the law.
3. Video surveillance
Article 35
The public sector, commercial enterprise, another legal person and entrepreneur
may perform video surveillance of the access to official or business areas for the purpose
of ensuring the safety of persons and property, controlling entries into and exits from
official or business areas or if, due to the nature of the business there is a possible risk
to the employees.
The decision on the introduction of video surveillance referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Article shall be made by the head of a state authority, public administration body,
local self-government and local administration authority or the responsible person in the
commercial enterprise or in another legal person, or by the entrepreneur if the
introduction of video surveillance is not provided for by the law.
The decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be in writing and must
include the reasons for introduction of video surveillance.
The video surveillance referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be carried out
in a way which does not show recordings of the interior of residential buildings not
connected with the entrance to official or business areas, or recordings of entrances to
apartments.
Employees working within areas under video surveillance referred to in paragraph
1 of this Article must be informed in writing of video surveillance.
Access to recordings made by the video surveillance system referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article via internal cable television, public cable television, the
Internet or other means of electronic communication capable of transmitting such
recordings either at the time of their making or afterwards shall be prohibited.
Article 36
The public sector, commercial enterprise, other legal person and entrepreneur may
perform video surveillance in official or business areas if so required by the reasons of
protection of safety of persons or property or secrecy of data and business secrets,
provided that this cannot be achieved in another way.
Video surveillance shall not be allowed in official and business areas outside the
workplace, particularly in changing rooms, elevators and sanitary premises and the areas
for receiving clients and visitors.
Where the introduction of video surveillance is not provided for by the law, the
decision on the introduction of video surveillance referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article
shall be made the head of a state authority, public administration body, local selfgovernment and local administration authority or the responsible person in a commercial
enterprise or in another legal person, or the entrepreneur.
The persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article must, before making a
decision on the introduction of video surveillance, obtain an opinion of the representative
trade union or of the staff representative.
10

The employees must be informed in writing of the introduction of video surveillance
before video surveillance starts.
The provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article shall not apply to official or business
areas belonging to the authorities responsible for the areas of defence, national and
public security and protection of secret data.
Article 37
Records shall be kept of video surveillance referred to in Article 35 paragraph 1 and
Article 36 paragraph 1 of this law.
The records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may contain: the recording of
the data subject (image or sound, or image and sound), date and time the recording of
entry and exit was made, and where so required, the name of the recorded data subject,
his domicile or residence and address, employment, category and number of the identity
document, reasons of entry, if personal data entered were collected either in addition to
the recording or through the recording made by a video surveillance system.
Personal data from the records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be
stored for no longer than a year from the day they were brought into existence.
Article 38
Video surveillance of entrances and exits as well as of common premises may be
performed in apartment buildings.
Video surveillance may be introduced in an apartment building only with the
written consent of the assembly of apartment owners.
The consent referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered given if
members of the assembly of apartment owners who hold over 70% ownership have voted
for it.
Video surveillance of entrances to apartments may not be performed.
Article 39
The public sector, commercial enterprise, other legal person and the entrepreneur
who performs video surveillance must display a public notification of video surveillance.
The notification referred to in paragraph of this Article must be displayed at a
visible place in a way which allows individuals to learn about video surveillance before it
begins or at latest at the moment video surveillance begins.
The notification referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall contain the following
information:
1) the title of the person performing video surveillance;
2) a telephone number to obtain information as to where and for how long the
video recordings are to be stored.
The data subject shall be deemed informed of the processing of personal data
through video surveillance by the mere fact of the notification referred to in paragraph 1
of this Article being displayed.
Video surveillance system used to perform video surveillance must be protected
against access by unauthorised persons.
Article 40
The provisions of Article 35 of this law shall apply where appropriate to video
surveillance of public areas, unless otherwise provided by a separate law.
11

IV TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA FROM MONTENEGRO
Article 41
Personal data undergoing processing may be transferred from Montenegro to
another country or given to an international organisation, which implements safeguards
provided for by this law, with the prior consent of the supervisory authority.
The adequacy of the measures of protection referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article shall be assessed in the light of all the circumstances surrounding a data transfer
operation or set of data transfer operations; particular consideration shall be given to:
1) the nature of the data;
2) the purpose and duration of the proposed processing operation or operations;
3) the country of origin and country of final destination,
4) the rules of law in force in the third country in question and
5) the professional rules and security measures which are complied with in that
country.
A transfer of data with the purpose of entrusting specific processing activities
within the meaning of Article 16 of this law may take place only with the consent of the
supervisory authority, except in the case set out in Article 42 item 6 of this law.
Article 42
The consent referred in Article 41, paragraph 1 of this Law shall not be mandatory
where:
1) the transfer of personal data is provided for by a separate law or an international
treaty binding on Montenegro;
2) the data subject has given his prior consent to the proposed transfer and has
been informed of possible consequences of data transfer;
3) the transfer is required for the performance of a contract between a legal or
natural person and the personal filing system data controller or the
implementation of precontractual obligations;
4) the transfer is required in order to protect the life of the data subject or is in his
interest;
5) the transfer is made from a register or records which according to laws or other
regulations are available to the public;
6) the data are transferred to the Member States of the European Union and
European Economic Area or countries which are included on the European
Union list of countries with an adequate level of personal data protection;
7) the transfer is necessary on important public interest grounds, or for the
establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims of the data subject;
8) the personal data filing system controller concludes a contract stipulating
adequate contractual obligations accepted by the Member States of the European
Union, with a personal data processor from the third country, and where
9) the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract between
the personal data filing system controller and a legal or natural person concluded
in the interest of the data subject.
V RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECT TO PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
12

Article 43
The personal data filing system controller must, on written request of the data
subject or his legal representative or attorney, if any, notify the data subject no later than
15 days from the day when the request was submitted of the following:
1) whether personal data are undergoing processing;
2) his name, domicile or residence or seat respectively and the processor and
recipient of personal data (his name, place of domicile or residence or seat respectively),
as well as of the source of data;
3) the purpose and legal grounds for processing of personal data;
4) the right of access to personal data relating to him;
5) the right to rectification of such data;
6) recipient of personal data and
7) the manner of automatic processing of personal data.
The notification referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be given in the form
of an extract, confirmation or a transcript.
Article 44
The personal data filing system controller must, on written request of the data
subject or his legal representative or attorney, if any, and no later than 15 days from the
day when the request was submitted:
1) supplement incomplete or alter or erase inaccurate personal data;
2) erase personal data the processing of which does not comply with the law;
3) block the use of inaccurate or incomplete personal data; and
4) block the use of personal data the use of which does not comply with the law,
The personal data filing system controller must notify the data subject or his legal
representative or attorney, if any, as well as the recipient of personal data of any
supplementing or alteration, erasure or blocking referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article
within eight days, unless this proves impossible.
Article 45
The rights of data subjects set out in Articles 43 and 44 of this law may be
restricted when such a restriction is required for the purpose of defence, national and
public security, detection and prosecution of criminal offenders, safeguarding economic
or financial interest or cultural assets of importance for the state, as well for protection of
the data subject or of human right and freedoms, to the extent necessary to achieve the
purpose for which the restriction was established, in accordance with a separate law.
Article 46
The costs of proceedings referred to in Articles 43 and 44 of this law shall be borne
by the personal data filing system controller, unless otherwise provided by the law.
Article 47
Any person who alleges a breach of his rights set forth in this Law may submit a
request for protection of rights to the supervisory authority.
The supervisory authority must decide on the request within 60 days from the day
of submission of the request.
13

The procedure and making of a decision with regards to the request referred to in
paragraph 1 of this shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Articles 66
through 73 of this law.
Until the decision referred to in paragraph 2 of this law is made, the supervisory
authority may, at the written request of the person who submitted a request for
protection of rights, temporarily ban further processing of personal data, if a breach of
the rights established by this law exists or is established as likely.
Administrative dispute proceedings may be initiated against the decision referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Article.
Article 48
The data subject shall be entitled to receive compensation from the personal data
filing system controller for the damage suffered as result of a breach of rights set forth in
this law in accordance with general rules on compensation of damage.
VI AGENCY FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Article 49
An Agency for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the Agency”) is
hereby set up to perform the tasks of the supervisory authority as laid down by this law.
The Agency shall be autonomous and independent in the performance of the tasks
falling within its competence.
The Agency shall have legal personality.
Article 50
The Agency shall:
1) perform supervision over the protection of personal data in accordance with this
law;
2) decide on requests for protection of rights;
3) deliver opinions with regards to the application of this law;
4) give consent with regards to the establishment of personal data filing systems;
5) deliver an opinion in the case of doubt whether a set of personal data is
considered a filing system within the meaning of this law;
6) monitor the application of organisational and technical measures for the
protection of personal data and propose improvement of such measures;
7) put forward proposals and offer recommendations for the improvement in the
protection of personal data;
8) deliver an opinion as to whether a specific way of personal data processing puts
rights and freedoms of individuals at risk;
9) cooperate with authorities responsible for supervising the protection of personal
data in other countries;
10) cooperate with competent state authorities in the process of development of
regulations relating to protection of personal data;
11) put forward proposals for assessment of constitutionality of laws and
constitutionality and lawfulness of other regulations and general acts which
govern the issues of personal data processing and
12) perform other tasks in accordance with this law.
14

Article 51
The Agency shall have a Council of the Agency and a Director.
Article 52
The Council of the Agency shall have a Chairman and two members.
The Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency shall be appointed by the
Parliament of Montenegro (hereinafter referred to as “the Parliament”), at a proposal of
the competent working body.
The Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency shall be appointed for the
period of five years and are eligible for one reappointment.
The Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency shall be accountable to
the Parliament.
Article 53
The Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency must meet the following
requirements:
1) must be Montenegrin nationals,
2) must have a university degree and
3) must have five years of work experience in the area of human rights and
freedoms.
Article 54
The following persons may not be appointed as Chairman and members of the
Council of the Agency:
1) a Member of Parliament or a Local Assembly;
2) person appointed by the Government of Montenegro;
3) political party official (president of a party, member of presiding body, their
deputy, member of executive or main board and other party officials);
4) persons who have been convicted by a final decision of a criminal offence
prosecuted ex officio, regardless of the sentence imposed, as well as persons who
have been convicted of another criminal offence by a final decision and sentenced
to an imprisonment in excess of six months, during the period in which legal
consequences of conviction are in force;
5) spouse of the persons referred to in clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this Article or relatives
of these persons in the direct line, in the collateral line within the second degree
and relatives by affinity.
A candidate for member of the Council of the Agency must submit a written
statement to the competent working body referred to in Article 52 paragraph 2 of this law
to the effect that there are no impediments for appointment established by this law.
Article 55
The Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency may be dismissed before
the expiry of their terms of office in the following cases:
1) on personal request,
2) due to the permanent loss of the working ability to perform the office,
3) if the circumstances referred to in Article 54 of this law arise,
4) if they violate the duty of protecting personal data.
15

Article 56
The Council of the Agency shall:
1) adopt the rules of the Agency;
2) adopt a Statute and an internal act on working posts, with the consent of the
working body referred to in Article 52 paragraph 2 of this law, as well as other acts
of the Agency;
3) draw up annual and special reports on the situation regarding the protection of
personal data;
4) establish an annual workplan and annual report on the work of the Agency;
5) establish a proposal of the financial plan and balance sheet;
6) make decisions on requests for protection of rights and in other cases following
supervision;
7) perform other tasks established by the law and the Statute of the Agency.
The rules referred to in paragraph 1 clause 1 of this Article shall be published in
the Official Gazette of Montenegro.
Article 57
The Council of the Agency shall decide by the vote of an absolute majority of its
members.
Article 58
The Director of the Agency shall be appointed by the Council of the Agency on the
basis of a public vacancy notice for the period of 4 years.
A person who does not meet the requirements for member of the Council of the
Agency under this law may not be appointed as Director of the Agency.
Article 59
The Director of the Agency shall:
1) act on behalf of and represent the Agency;
2) organise and lead the Agency;
3) execute decisions of the Council of the Agency,
4) propose to the Council of the Agency workplans, reports on the on the situation
regarding the protection of personal data,
5) perform other tasks laid down by this law and the Statute of the Agency.
Article 59 a
Remuneration of the Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency shall be
determined by the Statute of the Agency.
Article 60
The Agency shall have a technical service.
General labour regulations shall apply to the rights, obligations and responsibilities
of the technical service staff.
Article 61
The Agency shall have a statute.
The Statute of the Agency shall include at least the provisions on:
16

1) the seat and the activities of the Agency,
2) internal organisation of the Agency,
3) the manner of work, decision making and competences of the bodies of the
Agency.
Article 62
The Agency shall submit an annual report on the situation regarding the protection
of personal data to the Parliament no later than 31st March of the current year for the
previous year. The Agency shall submit to the Parliament a special report on the
situation regarding the protection of personal data in the following cases:
1) at the request of the Parliament,
2) if the Agency finds there are special reasons to do so.
The report referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall include an analysis of the
situation regarding the protection of personal data, proceedings brought under this law
and measures which have been ordered, as well as information on the level of protection
of the rights of data subjects with regard to the processing of personal data.
The reports referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article must be made available
to the public.
Article 63
The work of the Agency shall be financed from the Budget of Montenegro and other
sources, in accordance with the law.
Article 64
The Chairman and members of the Council, Director of the Agency and Agency
staff must keep secrecy of all data they become privy to in the performance of their
duties, in accordance with the laws governing secrecy of data.
The duty referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall continue even after the
tenure of the Director and employment of staff of the Agency has ended.
VII SUPERVISION
Article 65
The Agency shall perform supervision in accordance with this law through its staff
who are authorised to perform the tasks of supervision in accordance with the act on
working posts (hereinafter referred to as “the controller”).
In order to become a controller, a person must, in addition to the general
requirements established by the law, meet the following requirements:
1) must have a university degree;
2) must have five years of work experience;
3) must have passed the civil service exam;
4) must not have a conviction for a criminal offence which makes him unsuitable
for employment in a state authority and
5) must not be subject to criminal proceedings.
The procedure of supervision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be
initiated and conducted ex officio.
17

Any person may request initiating of the procedure of supervision.
Article 66
The controller shall have the right of access to personal data contained in personal
data filing systems, regardless of whether the records of such filing systems are kept in
the Register, as well as the right of access to files and other documents relating to the
processing of personal data and to electronic means of personal data processing.
The controller shall have the right of access to the personal data referred to
paragraph 1 regardless of the level of data secrecy.
Article 67
The personal data filing system controller or the processor of personal data must
provide access to the filing systems, files and other documents, as well as to the means of
electronic processing and must supply, on the request of the controller the required files
and documents.
Article 68
Minutes of the supervision performed under Article 65 of this law shall be prepared
within 15 days from the day when the supervision was performed and issued to the
personal data filing system controller.
When supervision is performed on the basis of a request for protection of rights
referred to in Article 47 of this Law, the controller must conduct the procedure and
prepare minutes immediately or within eight days from day when the request was
submitted at latest. The minutes shall be issued to the claimant and the personal data
filing system controller.
The personal data filing system controller and the claimant may make an objection
to the minutes referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article with the Agency within
eight days of the receipt of the minutes.
Article 69
Where the Agency establishes that an objection made by the personal data filing
system controller to the minutes which make a note of unlawful activities and
irregularities in the processing of personal data is unfounded, it shall impose the
measures set out in Article 71 of this Law.
In the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Agency shall submit a
request for bringing of misdemeanour proceedings.
Article 70
Where on the basis of minutes on supervision performed the Agency establishes
there are no unlawful activities or irregularities in the processing of personal data as
alleged in a request for protection of rights or in an objection to the minutes, it shall
reject the request by way of a decision.
When the Agency, acting on an objection of a claimant to the minutes which note
there are no unlawful activities or irregularities in the processing of personal data
relating to him, establishes that the objection is founded, it shall impose the measures
referred to in Article 71 of this law on the personal data filing system controller.
Article 71
18

In the performance of supervision the Agency shall have the authority to:
1) order that irregularities in the processing of personal data be eliminated;
2) impose a temporary ban on unlawful processing of personal data;
3) order the erasure of personal data collected without legal grounds;
4) impose a ban on transfer of personal data from Montenegro or disclosure of
data to recipients of personal data in contravention to this law;
5) impose a ban on entrusting of personal data processing where the processor
of personal data does not meet the requirements with regards to the
protection of personal data or where entrusting of such tasks was carried
out in contravention to this law.
Article 72
Administrative dispute proceedings may be brought against the decision of the
Agency.
Article 73
The regulations governing the inspection supervision shall apply to the procedure
and manner of performance of supervision, duties and authority of the controller and
other issues of importance for performance of supervision, unless otherwise provided by
this law.
VIII PENAL PROVISIONS
Article 74
A fine ranging from tenfold to three hundred fold amount of the minimum wage in
Montenegro shall be imposed on an authority, legal person or an entrepreneur who:
1) carries out processing of personal data without a prior consent of the data subject
(Article 10 paragraph 1);
2) fails to erase personal data from a personal data filing system within 30 days from
the day the request was made (Article 11 paragraph 2);
3) processes special categories of personal data in contravention to the provision of
Article 13 of this law;
4) processes personal data relating to criminal and misdemeanour proceedings in
contravention to Article 14 of this law;
5) processes personal data for commercial purposes and by resorting to other forms of
publicizing without the consent of the data subject (Article 15);
6) entrusts the tasks of personal data processing falling within his scope of work to a
processor of personal data who is not registered for carrying out the processing of
personal data or does not meet the requirements for implementation of technical,
personnel and organisational measures for protection of personal data (Article 16
paragraph 3);
7) does not keep records of personal data which have been made available to
recipients of personal data, the purpose for which they have been made available
for use and legal grounds for the use of personal data (Article 19);
8) fails to erase personal data the processing of which in not in compliance with
Article 23, paragraph 1 of this law;
19

9) does not provide technical, personnel and organisation measures of protection of
personal data for the purpose of protection from loss, destruction, unauthorised
access, alteration, publicizing and abuse (Article 24 paragraph 1);
10) establishes a personal data filing system prior to obtaining the consent from the
Agency or prior to the expiry of the 30-day time limit from the day of the
submission of the request (Article 27 paragraph 1);
11) does not keep records on personal data filing systems or fails to update such
records (Article 25);
12) performs supervision in a way which shows recordings of interiors of apartment
buildings which have no bearing on entrances to residential and business areas
or records entrances to apartments (Article 35);
13) fails to inform in writing the employees working within areas under video
surveillance on the performance of video surveillance (Article 35 paragraph 5); ?
14) performs video surveillance in business or official areas outside the working post
(Article 36 paragraph 2);
15) fails to inform the employees in writing of the introduction of video surveillance
before the performance of video surveillance begins (Article 36 paragraph 5);
16) records entrances to apartments via a video surveillance system (Article 38
paragraph 4);
17) fails to display a public notification of video surveillance at a visible place (Article
39 paragraphs 1 and 2);
18) fails to include all the required information in the public notification of video
surveillance (Article 39 paragraph 3);
19) fails to protect the video surveillance system used to perform video surveillance
from access by unauthorised persons (Article 39 paragraph 5);
20) fails to submit a notification to the data subject within 15 days from the day when
the request was submitted (Article 43);
21) fails to supplement, alter, erase or block the use of personal data within 15 from
the day when the request was submitted (Article 44 paragraph 1),
22) fails to inform the data subject, or his legal representative or attorney, if any, as
well as the recipient of personal data of the supplementing, alteration, erasure or
blocking of the use of personal data (Article 44 paragraph 2),
23) as a recipient or processor fails to act on an order of or a ban imposed by the
Agency (Article 71).
A responsible person in a legal person, responsible person in a state or other
authority and a natural person tasked with acting as personal data filing system
controller, processor or recipient of personal data shall be imposed a fine ranging from
one to twenty-fold amount of minimum wage in Montenegro for the misdemeanour
referred to paragraph 1 of this Article.
IX TRANSITORY AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 75
The Chairman and members of the Council of the Agency shall be appointed within
six months from the day on which this law enters into force.
The Director of the Agency shall be appointed within three months from the day of
the appointment of the Council of the Agency.
20

Article 76
Bylaws for implementation of this law shall be adopted within three months from
the day of the appointment of the Council of the Agency.
Article 77
The personal data filing systems set up until the entry into force of this law shall be
brought into compliance with this law within nine months from the day on which this law
enters into force.
Personal data filing system controllers shall set up the records referred in Article 26
of this law within 15 months from the day on which this law enters into force.
The public sector, commercial enterprise, other legal person and the entrepreneur
shall bring records on entries and exits from premises and performance of video
surveillance into compliance with the provisions of this law within 18 months from the
day on which this law enters into force.
Article 78
The Law on the Protection of Personal Data (Official Gazette of Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia 24/98) shall be repealed as of the day when this law becomes applicable.
Article 79
This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official
Gazette of Montenegro and shall be applied after the expiry of a period of six months from
the day of its entry into force.

21

