Official

The Telecommunications Law
(The Pyidaungsu Hluttaw Law No. 31, 2013)
The 4th Waxing Day of Thadingyut, 1375 M.E.
(8th October, 2013)
The Pyidaungsu Hluttaw hereby enacts this Law.
Chapter I
Title, Application and Definition
1.

This Law shall be called the Telecommunications Law.

2.

The provisions in this Law shall apply to:
(a)

any person, department and organization within the territory which
includes the land, water and airspace of the Republic of the Union of
Myanmar.

(b)

Myanmar citizens, who are anywhere beyond the limits of the Republic
of the Union of Myanmar.

3.

The following expressions contained in this Law shall have the meanings
given hereunder:
(a)

Telecommunications means transmission or reception of any
information in its original or modified form by using wire, fiber optic
cable or any other conducting cable or by using any means of radio
wave, optical or any other forms of electromagnetic transmission.

(b)

Information means data, text, image, sound, code, sign, signal, any
collection of data and combination of more than one thereof and
similar matters.

(c)

Wireless Communications means transmission or reception of any
information by means of radio wave, optical, electromagnetic or
1

Official

transmission or reception by any other means without using of wires,
fiber optical cables or any other conducting cable between the
transmitter and the receiver.
(d)

Telecommunications
telecommunications

Network
facilities,

means

a

telecommunications

network

of

equipments,

computers, devices similar to computer, peripherals used in
conjunction with them by means of wire or wireless communication
technology.
(e)

Customer Side of the Network Boundary means the first connected
telecommunications equipment socket at a customer premises or the
first point at which a Telecommunications Network receives
information from any customer or the first point at which Network
Facilities sends information to a customer.

(f)

Telecommunications Service means the provision of one or more than
one of the following services: Network Facilities Service, Network
Service and Application Service.

(g)

Network Facilities Service means the service of leasing any Network
Facilities to a licensee of Telecommunications Service while keeping
in possession of any Network Facilities or providing service over that
Network Facilities.

(h)

Network Service means a service for transmission and reception of
information by any means of Telecommunications. This expression
does not include services that are provided solely on the customer side
of the network boundary.

(i)

Application Service means any service provided using one or more
networks. This expression does not include services that are provided
solely on the customer side of the network boundary.
2

Official

(j)

Telecommunications Equipment means equipment used for
Telecommunications specifically determined by the Ministry for the
purpose of supporting this Law.

(k)

Telecommunications Market means a market relating to any
Telecommunications Service or a market relating to goods or services
used in conjunction with any such service.

(l)

Content means text, sound, still or moving image which can be
created, manipulated, stored, retrieved or communicated by means of
electronic technology or other audio-visual representation, tactile
representation or combination by any means thereof.

(m)

Network Facility means any element or combination of such elements
of physical infrastructure which is used for the provision of Network
Services.

(n)

Frequency Spectrum means a continuous electromagnetic frequency
range from 3 hertz to 420 Terahertz.

(o)

Telecommunications Numbering Plan means plan for telecommunications
numbering of the Nation established to use in the provision of
Telecommunications Services.

(p)

Electronic Addressing plan means plan for electronic addressing that
prescribes systematically using letters or numbers or the combination of
letters and numbers to use in the telecommunications processes among
information technology systems.

(q)

Telecommunications

Equipment

License

means

license

for

Telecommunications Equipment issued to any person, department or
organization authorizing possession and use of any Telecommunications
Equipment.
3

Official

(r)

Service License means a license issued under this Law to any person,
department or organization authorizing the establishment and provision
of any Telecommunications Service.

(s)

License means Service License and Telecommunications Equipment
License issued to any person, department or organization under this
Law.

(t)

Ministry means Ministry of Communications and Information
Technology of the Union Government.

(u)

Department means Posts and Telecommunications Department under
the Ministry.

(v)

Appeal Tribunal means Telecommunications Appeal Tribunal formed
by the Union Government in order to allow appeal if a person is not
satisfied with the order or decision made by the Ministry.

Chapter II
Objectives
4.

The objectives of this Law are as follows:
(a)

to enable to

support the modernization and development of the

nation with telecommunications technology;
(b)

to enable to bring out Telecommunications Services that will be able to
provide high quality and worthy services to the users by allowing fair
and transparent competitions from domestic and abroad in the
telecommunications sector which is developing;

(c)

to enable to give more opportunities to the general public to use
Telecommunications Service by expanding the Telecommunications
4

Official

Network in the entire country along with the telecommunications
technology which is developing;
(d)

to enable to protect the Telecommunications Service providers and
users in accord with law;

(e)

to enable to

supervise Telecommunications Service, Network

Facilities and Telecommunications Equipments which require license
for national peace and tranquility and for public security.

Chapter III
License for Establishing and Providing Telecommunications Service
5. Any person, department and organization from domestic and abroad desirous of
establishing and providing any of the following Telecommunications Services shall
apply to the Department to obtain permission and license in accord with the
stipulations:

6.

(a)

Network Facilities Service;

(b)

Network Service;

(c)

Application Service;

The Department shall publicize and declare policies, procedures and

regulations regarding the selection for license to provide Telecommunications
Service.
7.

The Department shall submit the application which is applied under section 5

to the Ministry with recommendation after scrutinizing it pursuant to section 6.

5

Official

8.

The Ministry:
(a)

may, when receiving the submission under section 7, if the application
is

within the country, permit to establish and provide the

Telecommunications Service with the approval of the Union
Government for those services that require the approval of the Union
Government in accord with the stipulations and by the decision of the
Ministry for those services that do not require approval as such;
(b)

may, when receiving the submission under section 7, if the submission
is from abroad , permit to establish and provide the Telecommunications
Service with the approval of the Union Government;

(c)

shall, when permitting to establish and provide the Telecommunications
Service under sub-sections (a) and (b), direct the Department for
issuing the license with a license term from a minimum of 5 years to a
maximum of 20 years;

(d)

may, if the Telecommunications Service Licensee apply permission to
provide

international

gateway

services

for

international

telecommunications and connectivity, allow such services in accord
with terms and conditions specifically stipulated for such services after
obtaining approval of the Union Government;
(e)

may, upon receiving the Department's recommendation regarding an
application for renewal of a Service License, allow the renewal.

9.

The Department shall issue the Service License by stipulating terms and

conditions according to the relevant service to the person, department and
organization from domestic and abroad who has been given permission to establish
and provide Telecommunications Service in accord with the directives of the
Ministry under sub-section (c) of section 8.
6

Official

10.

A Service Licensee may cooperate with the person, department and

organization from domestic and abroad in accord with the law.
11.

A Service Licensee may enter into an agreement with any other Service

Licensee for the following matters:
(a)

access to and interconnection of any Telecommunications Service in
accord with the provisions contained in Chapter X of this Law;

12.

(b)

sharing the Network Facilities;

(c)

carrying out other matters specifically prescribed in Service License.

(a)

A Service Licensee shall apply to the Department in accord with the
stipulations to renew the license before the expiry of the license term if
he desires to continue to carry out when the term of license has expired.

(b)

The Department may renew the Service License term with the
permission of the Ministry after scrutinizing the application.

Chapter IV
Telecommunications Equipment License
13.

Person, department and organization from domestic and abroad who desires

to keep in possession or use any Telecommunications Equipment determined by the
Ministry to use only after acquiring the Telecommunications Equipment License,
shall apply to the Department to get license in accord with the stipulations. Provided
that, it is not required to apply the Telecommunications Equipment License for the
followings:
(a)

keeping in possession and using Telecommunications Equipment
bought and invested by the Service Licensee for his use;
7

Official

(b)

keeping in possession and using Telecommunications Equipment
obtained from the Service Licensee.

14.

The Department:
(a)

may issue or refuse to issue license after scrutinizing the application of
license for the relevant Telecommunications Equipment under section
13;

(b)

shall specify terms and conditions as well as license term in issuing the
license;

Chapter V
Responsibilities of Licensee
15.

A licensee shall:
(a)

abide by this Law and rules, procedures, notifications, orders and
directives issued under this Law;

(b)

comply with terms and conditions contained in the license;

(c)

pay license fees, license renewal fees, usage fees, service fees as well
as other fees to be collected according to the technology or time
requirement in accord with the stipulations;

(d)

abide by the relevant codes of practices, standards of performance and
directives of the Ministry and Department;

(e)

to indemnify the nation in respect of the consequence of a breach or
failure to comply with the terms and conditions contained in the
license.

8

Official

16.

The Service Licensee shall:
(a)

comply with a frequency spectrum plan assigned and approved under
this Law;

(b)

obtain permission and Service License again in accord with the
provisions contained in Chapter III, if he desires to expand and provide
any Telecommunications Service for which he has not yet obtained
license, or to operate a joint venture or consortium with another
licensee;

(c)

comply when directed to make necessary modifications or to
temporarily suspend provision of any service based on the finding of
an inspection or a notice that it is causing technical interference to
another Telecommunications Service.

17.

The Service Licensee shall maintain securely the information and contents

that are transmitted or received through his Telecommunications Service and
confidential personal information of each individual users, and shall not disclose
and inform to irrelevant person except where allowed in accord with the existing
laws.
18.

The licensee of the Telecommunications Equipment shall:
(a)

keep and use the Telecommunications Equipments belonged to him
only at the location specified in the license;

(b)

take measure not to affect the national security through the
Telecommunications Equipment that he is allowed to use under the
license;

(c)

comply with the directives by the Department with regard to the
equipments used by him.
9

Official

Chapter VI
Management of Frequency Spectrum and Satellite Orbital Position
19.

The Ministry shall manage and supervise the national frequency spectrum

and satellite orbital position allocated to the Republic of the Union of Myanmar in
accord with the International Telecommunications Conventions.
20.

The Department may allow person , departments and organizations the use

of frequency bands contained in the National Frequency Allocation Plan by
determining the terms and conditions.

Chapter VII
Telecommunications Numbering Plan and
Electronic Addressing Plan
21.

The Department shall direct the Service Licensee to comply with and use the

telecommunications numbering plan and electronic addressing plan approved by the
Ministry.
22.

The Department may allow the Service Licensee the use of telecommunications

numbers and electronic addresses to be used in his Telecommunications Service by
determining the terms and conditions.
23.

The Department shall carry out inspection and supervision whether the

licensee uses the telecommunications number and electronic address in accord with
the directive under section 21 or not.

10

Official

Chapter VIII
Technical Standards
24.

The Department shall determine and publish the relevant technical standards

according to service in respect of the licenses with the approval of the Ministry.
25.

The Department shall supervise the licensees to comply with the technical

standards.
26.

The Department shall determine the standards of types of Network Facility and

Telecommunications Equipment for import and export.
27.

A person desirous of manufacturing, selling or distributing any Network

Facility or Telecommunications Equipment shall apply to the Department in order
to get the technical standard approval of the Network Facility or Telecommunications
Equipment to be manufactured, sold or distributed by him in accord with the
stipulations.
28.

The Department may issue or refuse to issue a technical standard approval

after scrutinizing the application.

Chapter IX
Consumer Protection
29.

(a)

The Service Licensee shall submit to the Department a proposed tariff
for the service being provided, or for a new service to be provided,
with regard to any Telecommunications Service.

(b)

The Department shall, after scrutinizing the proposed tariff, permit it
with the approval of the Ministry.

11

Official

30.

The Service Licensee shall:
(a)

provide services in accord with the tariff approved under sub-section
(b) of section 29;

(b)

if desirous of altering or cancelling the approved tariff, carry out only
after receiving prior approval of the Department.

31.

(a)

The Department shall , with the approval of the Ministry, determine
consumer protection standards relating to a Service License.

(b)

The Service Licensee shall comply with the consumer protection
standards.

Chapter X
Access and Interconnection
32.

The Department shall determine the necessary terms and conditions on

matters relating to access and interconnection of the Network Services to Network
Facilities.
33.

Where a Service Licensee requests another Service Licensee for enabling

access and interconnection of Network Services to Network Facilities for any
Telecommunications Service, it may be carried out by the mutual agreement and
with the approval of the Department.
34.

In allowing each other, access into their network by the licensees:
(a)

it shall be on equitable and non-discriminatory basis. It shall not be of
lower standard than the original service quality within the network;

(b)

it shall accept the inspection if the Department inspects the quality of
standards according to necessity.
12

Official

Chapter XI
Prohibition on Anti-Competitive Practices
35.

The Service Licensee shall not carry out any activity which has the effect of

lessening competition in the Telecommunications Market.
36.

The Service Licensee shall not enter into any understanding, agreement,

arrangement or contract with any person, department or organization in respect of
the following matters:
(a)

price fixing in his own volition;

(b)

market sharing with an aim to lessen competition;

(c)

boycotting

of

a supplier

or

vendor

of

Telecommunications

Equipment;
(d)
37.

unfair opposition to any competitor.

The Service Licensee shall not restrict a user from acquiring and using

Telecommunications Equipment or Telecommunications Service only from him or
from any other person.
38.

If anti-competitive practices in the Telecommunications Market which are

prohibited under sections 35, 36 and 37 arise, the Department, with the approval of
the Ministry, may direct the Service Licensee to cease such activities.

Chapter XII
Inspection and Supervision
39.

The Department:
(a)

shall manage and supervise in implementing the provisions of this
Law, in accord with the guidance of the Ministry;
13

Official

(b)

shall carry out inspection and supervision of the Telecommunications
Services, Network Facility Services and Telecommunications Equipments
which have obtained licenses;

(c)

may form an inspection team with suitable persons and delegate the
function if necessary for inspection under sub-section (b);

40.

In implementing the provisions contained in this Law:
(a)

the Department may,
(i)

examine any necessary person and require to furnish any
necessary information, data, papers and documents;

(ii)

enter and inspect the buildings and places, and equipment where
any Telecommunications Service is provided;

(iii)

examine, take extract and copy the accounts, papers and
documents in respect of the Telecommunications Service;

(iv)

determine the procedures to be complied with by the Service
Licensee in respect of filing and maintaining the accounts and
documents relating to the business.

(b)

the inspection team formed under sub-section (c) of section 39 may
exercise the powers contained in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-section
(a) according to the duties delegated by the Department.

Chapter XIII
Installation, Maintenance and Repair of Network Facilities
41.

The Service Licensee may, for enabling to make installation or connection of

Network Facilities, carry out the following activities in the place granted permission
14

Official

with an agreement of both sides after negotiation including a time schedule with the
relevant owner of land and building or the person who has authority to manage such
land and building:
(a)

carrying out other necessary matters including entering, inspecting,
measuring, taking records on levels, taking soil samples, digging pits,
examining the surface soil for the purpose of enabling to select and
decide whether the land site is suitable or not;

(b)

placing, laying, installing and connecting necessary Network Facilities
above and under such land or water for the purpose of providing
Network Service and related services and taking actions to ensure the
security of the equipment;

(c)

entering for inspecting, maintaining and repairing the Network
Facilities.

42.

The Service Licensee shall, if there is a transfer of the ownership of the land

and building where the agreement to do business contained in section 41 has been
obtained by the licensee, seek agreement in order to continue with installation or
connection of Network Facilities in the said land and building.
43.

Where a Service Licensee installs, maintains, repairs, alters and removes the

Network Facilities, he shall not cause any harm or obstruction to the public road,
traffic, water traffic or air traffic.
44.

The Service Licensee shall not enter upon any land without giving prior

notice to the owner for making prior surveys for the purpose of installing or
removing the Network Facilities.
45.

The Service Licensee shall, in conducting installation or maintenance of the

Network Facilities, take necessary preventive measures to minimize the damage.

15

Official

46.

Where a Service Licensee installs or maintains of his Network Facility, if it

causes injury or death to a person or damage to any property due to negligence or
willful failure of him, the injured or aggrieved person shall be entitled to
compensation from the Service Licensee in accord with the stipulation.
47.

The Service Licensee shall, in implementing any work under this Law which

may affect any high-way road, street, railway, river, cannel, other water way,
irrigated agricultural system, drain, water supply system, communications link,
harbor works or other public or private works, or in erecting Network Facilities for
Telecommunications Service above or under the ground using Network Facilities,
carry out in accord with law in a manner having regard to the safety of any person
or property.
48.

If the Department considers it necessary for any Telecommunications Service

or Telecommunications Network within a building which is under construction or
completed or on land, or for the enhancement of the quality of the Network Service
in the building and on the land, it may:
(a)

coordinate with relevant agencies to require the developer or owner of
building and land to provide space for enabling to install Network
Facilities inside or on the building and land within the prescribed
period.

(b)

direct the Service Licensee to install Network Facility within a
prescribed period.

(c)

direct the Service Licensee to bear wholly or partly the costs and
expenses incurred in installing the Network Facilities.

49.

The Department may manage cooperative activities in the erection and

installation of Network Facilities of the Service Licensees in order to avoid
unnecessary budget and for environmental conservation.
16

Official

Chapter XIV
Dispute Resolution
50.

The Service Licensees may:
(a)

when any dispute arises in carrying out and providing any
Telecommunications Service or Network Facilities, submit such
dispute to the Department if it cannot be settled by themselves;

(b)

if any dispute arises in carrying out access and interconnection of the
Network Service to the Network Facilities, submit such dispute to the
Department.

51. The Department shall mediate and resolve, in respect of dispute between the
Service Licensees which is submitted for mediation and resolution pursuant to
section 50, or even if not submitted, if such dispute may harm the public interest.
52.

(a)

A person dissatisfied with the mediation and resolution made by the
Department under section 51 may:
(i)

if the dispute is the case which relates to the telecommunications
technology, appeal to the Ministry within 30 days from the date
on which the decision is made;

(ii)

if the dispute is the case which does not relate to the
telecommunications technology, appeal to the respective court
in order to get relief for his losses in accord with the existing
laws;

(b)

In respect of the appeal filed under clause (i) of the sub-section (a), the
Ministry:
(i)

shall make necessary investigations;

(ii)

may approve, revise or cancel the decision of the Department.
17

Official

(c)

A person who is not satisfied with the decision of the Ministry may
appeal to the Appeal Tribunal within 45 days from the date the
decision is made in accord with the procedure.

Chapter XV
Universal Service Obligation
53.

The Ministry may direct the Department to adopt plans to promote

widespread availability of Telecommunications Services within the Republic of the
Union of Myanmar by encouraging expansion of basic telecommunications
infrastructure and expansion of Telecommunications Services in the underserved
areas in the country.
54.

The Ministry shall establish and supervise a Universal Service Fund for

implementation of universal service plans.
55.

The Department shall supervise the implementation of universal service plans

by utilizing the fund established under section 54.
56.

The Department shall, with the approval of the Ministry, carry out for

enabling to lay down the following plans contained in section 55:
(a)

designation of underserved areas;

(b)

setting universal service targets;

(c)

determination of universal service obligations that the Service
Licensees shall follow.

18

Official

Chapter XVI
Taking Administrative Action
57.

The Department may, if the licensee breaches any of the license conditions or

fails to comply with any duty contained in Chapter V or any directives under
section 38 or the mediation resolution by the Department under section 51 or the
decision of the Ministry under sub-section (b) of section 52, issue any of the
following administrative order;

58.

(a)

warning;

(b)

suspension of license for a limited period;

(c)

termination of the license.

(a)

A person dissatisfied with any administrative order passed by the
Department under section 57 may appeal to the Ministry within 30
days from the date of passing such order.

(b)

In respect of the appeal under sub-section (a), the Ministry may:
(i)

make inquiries, if necessary.

(ii)

confirm, amend or cancel the order of the Department.

Chapter XVII
Formation of the Appeal Tribunal, Assigning Duty, Hearing and Deciding
59.

The Union Government shall,
(a)

upon receipt of appeal from any aggrieved person regarding the
administrative decision made by the Ministry in accord with this Law
on a dispute, establish an Appeal Tribunal which will provide
19

Official

opportunity for further appeal and assign responsibilities to the Appeal
Tribunal.
(b)

establish the Appeal Tribunal with the members not more than nine
members including the Chair and assign responsibilities to the Appeal
Tribunal.

60.

The Chair and the members of the Appeal Tribunal shall have with the

following qualifications:
(a)

The Chair of the Appeal Tribunal shall have served as Judge of the
High Court of the Region or State for at least 5 years or have served as
a Judicial officer or a Law officer for at least 10 years at a level not
lower than that of Region or State.

(b)

Members of the Appeal Tribunal shall be eminent experts in the
subjects of telecommunications technology, law or economics.

61.

(a)

The Appeal Tribunal shall announce the date of hearing in advance
and shall have the hearing as fixed.

(b)

In respect of the submission, hear the argument of the relevant persons.

(c)

Shall arrange to pass the final decision promptly.

(d)

The final decision of the Appeal Tribunal shall be adopted with the
approval of at least half of the members including the Chair.

62.

The decision of the Appeal Tribunal shall be final and conclusive.

63.

The Chair and members of the Appeal Tribunal are entitled to enjoy the

emolument stipulated by the Union Government.
64.

The term of the Appeal Tribunal is from the date it was formed and only until

the report of the final decision has been submitted to the Union Government.
20

Official

Chapter XVIII
Offences and Penalties
65.

Whoever provides Telecommunications Service without a license shall, on

conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years and may
also be liable to a fine.
66.

Whoever commits any of the following acts shall, on conviction, be liable to

imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine or to both.
(a)

Accessing and disturbing a Telecommunications Network, altering or
destroying the determination of technical standards or the original form
without the permission of the owner or a person who has the
administrative right.

(b)

Releasing a virus or using any other means with an intention to cause
damage to the Telecommunications Network.

(c)

Stealing, cheating, misappropriating or mischief of any money and
property by using any Telecommunications Network.

(d)

Extorting, coercing, restraining wrongfully, defaming, disturbing,
causing undue influence or threatening to any person by using any
Telecommunications Network.

67.

Whoever keeps in possession or uses any Telecommunications Equipment

restricted as requiring a license without having such a license shall, on conviction,
be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine or to both.
68.

Whoever commits any of the following acts shall, on conviction, be liable to

imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine or to both.
(a)

communications, reception, transmission, distribution or conveyance of
incorrect information with dishonesty or participation;
21

Official

(b)

prohibiting, obstructing or interfering the transmission, reception,
communication, conveyance or distribution of information without
permission;

(c)

entering without the permission into the place restricted with the
approval of the Department where Telecommunications Service are
provided;

(d)

prohibiting, obstructing or disturbing any person who has been
assigned duty on any Telecommunications Service by a licensee from
serving his duty;

69.

Whoever, unless for the matters concerning prosecution regarding

Telecommunications, and unless authorized under court order to disclose, discloses
any information which is kept under a secured or encrypted system to any irrelevant
person by any means shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to a fine or to both.
70.

Any licensee who uses, keeps in possession, supplies or imports any Network

Facility or Telecommunications Equipment that does not meet the prescribed
technical standards shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year to a fine or to both.
71.

Whoever deters, obstructs, or disturbs the discharge of official duty by the

Department or inspection team formed by the Department under this Law shall be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine or to both.
72.

Whoever contravenes any prohibition contained in rules, regulations, by-

laws, notifications, orders, directions and procedures issued under this Law shall, on
conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to a
fine or to both.

22

Official

73.

Whoever attempts to commit any offence under this Law, or conspire or abets

the commission of an offence shall be liable to the punishment provided in this Law
for such offence.

Chapter XIX
Miscellaneous
74.

The Ministry shall,

for enabling to give advice in matters relating to

technical standards, Frequency Spectrum Management, consumer protection in
telecommunications sector and setting relevant policies for telecommunications
sector development within the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, form National
Telecommunications Advisory Committee which composed of Union Minister or a
person conferred duty by Minister as a Chair and the representatives of the
information and telecommunications industries and the representatives of the users,
experts and the Department as members by issuing a notification with the approval
of the Union Government. The functions and duties of the committee shall be set
out separately.
75.

The Union Government may, as may be necessary, direct to the relevant

organization for enabling to obtain any information and telecommunications which
causes harm to national security and prevalence of law without affecting the
fundamental rights of the citizens.
76.

The Ministry, or the Department or the Organization designated by the

Ministry may, for the matters relating national defense and security or public
interest, enter and inspect, supervise the operation of any Telecommunications
Service being operated by the licensee and may require to submit the documents if
necessary.
77.

The Ministry may, when an emergency situation arises to operate for public

interest, direct the licensee to suspend a Telecommunications Service, to intercept,
23

Official

not to operate any specific form of communication, to obtain necessary information
and communications, and to temporally control the Telecommunications Services
and Telecommunications Equipments.
78.

A licensee shall, out of the actions under section 77, make prior arrangements

to be enable to carry out any Telecommunications Service for the purposes of
security in a lawful manner.
79.

If an exhibit relating to an offence prosecuted under this Law is not easily

producible before the court, such an exhibit need not be produced before the Court
and a report on how such exhibit is kept or other relevant document may be
submitted. Such submission shall be deemed as if it were a submission of the
exhibit before the Court and the relevant court may dispose in accord with the law.
80.

(a)

The offences under this Law shall be deemed as cognizable offence.

(b)

In prosecution under this Law, prior sanction of the Ministry shall be
obtained.

81.

The Ministry shall determine the license fees, license renewal fees, spectrum

usage fees, and fees for the allocation of number and electronic address and overdue
payment.
82. The Ministry may, for the interest of the public and with the approval of the
Union Government, grant exemption to any government department, organization
or any person from obtaining the required permission, licenses and letter of
recommendation under this Law and from paying fees if necessary. However, for
the matters relating to a state emergency, national defense and security and natural
disasters, it may be carried out without seeking prior permission of the Union
Government. Such activities shall be reported to the Union Government.

24

Official

83.

The Department shall determine the conditions, codes of practice and

necessary standards relating to Telecommunications Services with the approval of
the Ministry.
84.

The Department may;
(a)

communicate and coordinate with international telecommunications
organizations and regional organizations in accord with the guidance of the
Ministry in respect

of Telecommunications Services in order to

implement the provisions of International Telecommunications
Conventions agreed and ratified by the State.
(b)

hold examinations relating to telecommunications technology and
technical skills in compliance with the International Telecommunications
Conventions and in accord with the stipulations and may issue
certificates of completion.

85.

Under the Myanmar Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Myanmar Wireless

Telegraphy Act, 1934;
(a)

the license that was previously issued but has not yet expired shall be
deemed as a license issued under this Law and shall be effective until
the expiry of the license. A license shall be applied and obtained in
accord with this Law before the term of license is expired if the
licensee desires to continue to provide Telecommunications Service
after the license has expired.

(b)

the rules, notifications, orders and directives which have been issued,
may continue to be applicable in so far as they are not inconsistent with
this Law.

86.

The Union Government shall establish the independent Myanmar

Communications Commission within two years from the date of this Law comes
25

Official

into force, lead by an appropriate person at the Union level in order to carry out the
functions and duties contained in this Law regarding Telecommunications Services.
87.

The Ministry may, if necessary to clarify interpretation of any technical

expression related to Telecommunications contained in this Law, clarify by issuing
notification.
88.

In implementing the provisions of this Law:
(a)

the Ministry may, with the approval of the Union Government, issue
necessary rules, regulations and by-laws as may be necessary;

(b)

the Ministry may issue notifications, orders, directives and procedures
and the Department may issue orders and directives as may be
necessary.

89.

The following laws are hereby repealed by this Law:
(a)

The Myanmar Telegraph Act, 1885.

(b)

The Myanmar Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1934.

I hereby sign under the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.

Sd/
Thein Sein
The President
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar

26

