Electronic Transactions Law
Chapter One
Definitions and General Provisions
Article (1)
In the application of this Law, The following words and expressions shall have the meaning
assigned to them, unless the context otherwise provides:
Government
: The units of the state Administrative Apparatus and ex
officio units.
Minister

:

The Minister of National Economy.

Competent Authority
Electronic Transaction

:
:

Electronic

:

Electronic Message

:

Electronic Mailing
Electronic Record

:
:

Electronic Data

:

Electronic Data Interchange

:

Electronic Intermediary

:

Computer Program

:

Intermediary

:

Processing System

:

The Information Technology Authority.
Any action or contract concluded or to be partially or
wholly executed by electronic messages.
Any kind of means of modern technology with electric
or digital or magnetic or wireless or optical or
electromagnetic or photic or any other means of
equivalent nature.
Electronic information to be sent by electronic means
whatever the method of its extraction at the location of
receiving.
Sending and receiving electronic messages.
A contract or register or data message originated or
stored or extracted or copied or sent or being informed
or received by electronic means through a tangible
intermediary or any other intermediary and should be
receivable and understandable.
Information or data to be interchanged electronically
in the form of texts or symbols or sounds or pictures
or photos or charts or computer programs or any other
database.
Transfer of information from person to person using
an agreed standard to structure the information.
A computer program or system or any other
electronic means used for processing or responding to
any process with the intention of originating or
sending or receiving data message without
interference of natural person.
A collection of electronic information or instructions
used directly or indirectly for processing electronic
information with the purpose of obtaining specific
results.
The natural or juristic person who, on behalf of
another, sends or receives or adopt or store an
electronic transaction or performs services related to
such a transaction.
An electronic system for treating and processing data
and information automatically for the purpose of
1

Originator

:

Addressee

:

Signatory

:

Signature Originating tool

:

Electronic Signature

:

Authentication Procedure

:

Certification Service Provider

:

Certificate

:

Approved Party

:

Processing Personal Data

:

Ciphering

:

originating or sending or receiving or storing or
presenting or programming or analyzing such data and
information.
Any person sends an electronic message or to be sent
on his behalf upon a proper power of attorney.
The natural or juristic person whom the originator of
the electronic message intends to receive his message.
The person who possesses, from the competent
authority, electronic signature and he signs on behalf
of himself or on behalf of his appointee or those who
represent them legally.
A tool used for originating an electronic signature
such as a software electronic device
Signing an electronic message or transaction in the
form of letters or digits or symbols or signs or others
and should be unique capable of determining the
character of the person signed and identifying him
from others.
The procedure aimed to verifying that an electronic
message has been issued by a certain person and
detection of any mistake or amendment in the contents
of or sending or storing electronic message or
electronic record within a certain period of time. This
includes any action in which logarithm or symbols or
defining words and numbers or ciphering or reply
procedure are admitting receipt or any other means of
similar information protection.
Any person or approved licensed authority authorized
to issue electronic certificates or any other services
related to such certification and electronic signatories.
An electronic certification issued by the certification
service provider confirming the link between the
signatory and the data of the electronic signature.
A person who acts pursuant to a certificate or
electronic signature.
Any process or series of processes conducted on the
personal data through automatical means or other, or
collecting or recording or organizing or storing or
amending or modifying or retrieving or reviewing or
disclosing such data through sending or distribution or
making it accessible by other means or coordinating or
joining to each other or concealing or deleting or
cancelling such data.
The process of changing a text or document or
electronic message into unknown or scattered symbols
impossible to be read or known without being
retrieved to its original text.

Article (2)
This Law aims to:
2

1. Facilitate electronic transactions by using reliable electronic messages or records.
2. Remove any obstacles or challenges encountering electronic transactions resulting
from ambiguities associated with writing and signature and enhancing the basic legal
structure for secured electronic transactions.
3. Facilitate the transfer of electronic documents and subsequent amendments.
4. Minimize cases of forgery on electronic correspondences and subsequent amendments
and committing frauds on electronic transactions
5. Set up unified principles for rules and regulations and standards relating to
authentication and safety of electronic correspondences and records.
6. Consolidate the public trust in the safety and authenticity of electronic transactions,
correspondences and records.
7. Develop the electronic transactions at the national Gulf and Arabic domain by using
the electronic signature.
Article (3)
The provisions of this Law shall apply to electronic transactions, records, signatures and to
any electronic messages.
This law shall not apply to:
a. Transactions and matters related to Personal Status Law such as marriage, divorce,
wills and endowments.
b. Court procedures, judicial summons, proclamations, summons, search orders, arrest
orders and judicial decrees.
c. Any document required by Law to be authenticated by the Notary Public.

Article (4)
1. The provisions of this law shall apply to transaction between the parties who agree on
conducting their transactions by electronical means and the consent of each party may
be inferred from his conduct. As to the Government, its consent to electronical dealing
shall be given expressly.
2. The parties involved in originating or sending or receiving or storing or processing
electronic records may agree on dealing in a way different to any of the rules provided
for in Chapter 2 up to 4 of this Law.
3. Any agreement between the parties to conduct any transaction by electronical means
shall not be obligatory on either party to conduct other transactions by the same
means.
Article 5
The competent Authority shall determine the system of electronical payments after agreement
with the Central Bank of Oman.
Article 6
The intermediary and the Certification Service provider shall, on their own cost, provide all
technical components such as equipments, devices, systems and programs that allow the
security authorities to enter their systems to achieve national security requirements provided
that the provisions of such service shall be in line with the provisions of the technical
components according to the state of the art techniques. The Ministry of Finance shall provide
all requirements needed for connecting all hardwares of used by these security authorities to
3

achieving the objectives of National Security with those hardwares used by the intermediary
and the Certification Service provider as the National Securities council may decides. The
intermediary and the certification service provider shall bear all costs of updating and
connections to hardwares used by these security authorities in case of changes in their systems
according to the decisions to be issued by the competent Authority and the Laws into force.

Chapter two
Legal Consequences Ensuing from Electronic Messages and Electronic
Transactions Requirements
Article (7)
The electronic message shall have legal effect and shall be deemed true and enforceable like
the written document if the conditions provided for in this law and the executive regulations
are observed in its origination and approval.
Article (8)
(1) Where any law requires the retention of any document or record or information or data
for any reason, then such retention shall be ascertained by retaining that document
or record or information or data in electronical form if the following conditions are
satisfied:
(a) The document or record or information or data are retained electronically in the
form they were originated or sent or received or in a form capable of proving
accurately that the document or record or information or data originated or sent
or received in its original form
(b) The document or record or information or data shall remain retained in a way
to render it accessible, usable and retrievable for subsequent reference.
(c) The document or record or information or data shall be retained in a way to
enable the identification of their origin and destination and the date and time
when they were sent or received.
(2) Nothing in this Article shall affect the following:
(a)

(b)

Any other Law providing expressly for retention of a document or record or
information or data in electronical form pursuant to any established electronic
system or by following certain procedures or their retention or sending them
through a certain electronic intermediary.
Any other additional requirements to be determined by the Government for the
retention of its electronic records under its possession.

Article (9)
Where the Law requires the writing of any document or record or transaction or information
or statement or provides for consequences otherwise, then that requirement of writing is met
by submission of any of the above in electronical form if the conditions provided for in the
previous article are observed.

4

Article (10)
Where the Law requires the provision of a message or record or document in its original form
and provides for consequences otherwise, then the electronic message or electronic record or
electronic document will be regarded as original if there exist a reliable assurance or means
allowing display of the information intended to be provided in an understandable way and to
verify the integrity of the information contained in any of the above documents.
Article (11)
1- In the application of the rules of evidence in any legal proceedings, nothing shall apply
so as to deny the admissibility of the electronic message on the ground that it is not in
its original form if the message is the best evidence that the person adducing it could
reasonably be expected to obtain.
Such a message shall have evidential weight with regard to be had to the following:
(a)

The reliability of the manner in which the message was performed or entered
or generated or processed or stored or presented or sent.
(b)
The reliability of the manner in which the integrity of the information was
maintained.
(c)
The reliability of the source of information if such source is well known.
(d)
The reliability of the manner in which its originator was identified
(e)
Any other relevant factor.
2- Unless the contrary is proved, the electronic signature shall be deemed protected if the
conditions stipulated in Article (22) of this Law are satisfied and it intends to signing
or authenticating the electronic message on which it was put or related and it has not
being changed since being originated, and it is a reliable signature.
Chapter Three
Electronic Transactions and Contract Formation
Article (12)
1- For the purposes of contracting, any offer and the acceptance may be expressed by
means of electronic messages. Such expression shall be considered as binding on all
parties whenever it is given in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
2- The contract shall not be denied validity or its enforceability for the reason that it was
concluded by one or more electronic messages.
Article (13)
1- The contract may be concluded between auto-electronic media having electronic
information system or more already prepared and programmed to do such tasks, and
the contracting shall be valid and enforceable irrespective of any personal or direct
interference of any natural person in the process of concluding the contract.
2- The contract may be concluded between any information system owned by a natural or
Juristic person and another natural or juristic person if he knows or should have
known that the contract will be concluded by that system. The electronic contracts
shall have the same legal effects associated with contracts concluded in the normal
ways whether in its validity or evidential value or enforceability and any other rules.
Article (14)
The responsibility of the Intermediary:
5

1- The Intermediary shall not be held responsible civilly or criminally for any
informations received in the form of electronic records concerning a third party, if the
Intermediary is not the originator of such information and his role is restricted to
providing access to such information, if such responsibility arises on:
(a)
Originating or publishing or distributing such information or any data included
therein.
(b)
Trespassing on any of the personal rights related to such information.
2- For absolving the intermediary from responsibility based on the provisions of this
Article the following shall be ascertained:
(a)
He has no knowledge of any facts or circumstances, in the ordinary course of
things, capable of creating criminal or civil responsibility.
(b)
In case of his knowledge of any of the above, he has immediately removed all
informations, from any information system under his control and stopped
access to or display of such information.
3- The provisions of this Article will not impose any legal obligation on the intermediary
with regard to monitoring any informations in the form of electronic records relating
to a third party if his sole role is only to provide access to such records.
4- The provisions of this Article will not affect the following:
(a)
Any obligations arising out of any contract.
(b)
The obligations imposed by any legislation in respect of providing
communication services.
(c)
The obligations imposed by other legislation or enforceable Judicial decree
related to restricting or preventing or removal of any informations in the form
of electronic records or blocking such informations.
5- In the application of this Article, providing access to any information of third party,
shall mean the availability of technical means that facilitate access to informations in
the form or electronic records concerning a third party or disseminate or even increase
efficacy of dissemination and this shall include auto or provisional saving of
information with the purpose of accessing it. In the application of this Article, the third
party shall mean any person upon whom the intermediary has no actual control.
Article (15)
1- The electronic message shall be considered issued by the originator in the following
situations:
(a)
If the originator has generated it himself.
(b)
As between the Originator and the addressee, the electronic message shall be
considered as generated by the originator if it was sent:
i.
By a person who has authority to act on behalf of the originator in
respect of the said electronic message.
ii.
In accordance with an information system programmed by or on behalf
of the originator, to operate automatically.
2- The addressee shall consider the electronic message as being transmitted by the
originator and shall act on that assumption in the following two cases:
(a)
If the addressee has applied properly a procedure previously agreed to by the
originator for the ascertainment whether the electronic message was that of the
originator.
(b)
If the electronic message as received by the addressee resulted from the acts of
a person whose relationship with the originator or any agent of the originator
will enable that person to gain access to a method used by the originator to
identify to the addressee that the electronic message was that of the originator.
6

This sub-article shall cease to be effective as from:
1- The time when the addressee has received notice from the originator that
the electronic message is not that of the originator and the addressee had
been given reasonable time to act accordingly.
2- The time when the addressee came to know or ought to have known had he
exercised reasonable care or used an agreed procedure that the electronic
message is not that of the originator.
This sub-article is also ineffective if it is not acceptable for the addressee to consider that the
electronic message is that of the originator or to act in accordance with this assumption and
the addressee is entitled to consider each electronic message received by him as an
independent correspondence and to act on that assumption only unless he knows or ought to
have known if he exercises reasonable care or uses an agreed procedure that the electronic
message was a mere duplicate.
Article (16)
Where the originator has requested the addressee or agreed with him on or before sending the
electronic message or through that message, that the acknowledgement of receiving that
message shall be admitted, then the provisions of Article (15) of this law shall be applied
subject to the followings:
1) Where the originator has stated that the electronic message is conditional on receipt of
the acknowledgement, the electronic message is to be treated, with regard to the rights
and obligations as between the originator and the addressee, as though it has never
been sent until the acknowledgement is received by the originator.
2) Where the originator has requested an acknowledgement of receipt of the electronic
message but he has not stated that the electronic message is conditional on receipt of
the acknowledgement within the time specified or agreed upon, or that such time is
not agreed or specified, then the originator shall give to the addressee notice stating
that no acknowledgement has been received and specifying a reasonable time within
which the acknowledgement shall be received. If the acknowledgement is not received
within the time specified or agreed upon, the originator may, upon notice to the
addressee, treat the message as though it had never been sent.
3) Where the originator received the addressee’s acknowledgement of receipt, it is
presumed that the related electronic message was received by the addressee unless the
contrary is proved. That presumption does not imply that the contents of the electronic
message sent by the originator corresponds to the message received by the addressee.
4) Where the originator has not agreed with addressee that the acknowledgement be
given in a particular form or by a particular method, then an acknowledgement may be
communicated by mean of any correspondence from the side of the addressee
electronically or otherwise or any conduct of the addressee capable of confirming to
the originator that the electronic message has been received.
5) Where the acknowledgement received by the originator states that the related
electronic message met the technical requirements whether those agreed upon or stated
in the applicable standards, it is presumed that those requirements were met until the
contrary is proved.
Article (17)
Unless otherwise agreed between the originator and the addressee:
(1) The dispatch of the electronic message occurs when it enters an information system
outside the control of the originator or of the person who sent the electronic
message on behalf of him.
7

(2) The time of receipt of the electronic message is determined as follows:
(a) If the addressee has designated an information system for the purpose of
receiving electronic messages, then receipt occurs at the time when the
message enters the designated information system and if the message is sent to
an informations system the time of receipt will be the time when the message
is retrieved by the addressee.
(b) If the addressee has not designated an information system, then receipt occurs
when the message enters an information system of the addressee.
(3) The electronic message is deemed to be dispatched at the place where the originator
has its place of business, and is deemed to be received at the place where the
addressee has its place of business even if the place where the information system
is located differ from the place where the message is presumed to be received.
(4) If the originator or the addressee has more than one place of business, the place of
business is that which has the closest relationship to the underlying transaction or,
where there is no underlying transaction, the principal place of business and if the
originator or the addressee does not have a place of business, then reference is to
be made to its habitual residence.
Chapter Four
Methods of Protecting Electronic Transactions
Article (18):
Ciphering is to be used as a mean of protecting electronic transactions in order to keep the
information and the data of the message confidential and to verify the person of the originator
and to prevent others from getting information or electronic messages so as not to reach the
addressee or to corrupt them.
Article (19)
One of the following means shall be used to protect information systems:
(a)
Public key Ciphering.
(b)
Firewalls.
(c)
Information Filters.
(d)
Non-repudiation means.
(e)
File and Message Ciphering Technology.
(f)
Protecting of backup Data.
(g)
Anti Worms and Anti Virus Programs.
(h)
Any other means authorized by competent Authority.
Article (20)
Save the ciphering keys determined by the National Security Council, the employee
designated by the competent authority may request from any owner of ciphering key to allow
him checking the necessary informations pertinent to that key and the owner of the key shall
handover the key to that employee.
Article (21)
1- Where specific authentication procedure were applied as agreed upon between the
parties on electronic record to verify that it has not been changed since a certain time,
then such a record shall be treated as a protected electronic record since that time up to
the time of verification.

8

2- Where no agreement exists between the parties, the authentication procedure shall be
deemed acceptable according to sub-article (1) of this Article and Article (22) of this
law taking into consideration the circumstances relating to the parties especially:
(a)
The nature of the transaction.
(b)
The knowledge and experience of the parties.
(c)
The volume of similar transaction to which any or all of the parties is a party.
(d)
The existence of alternative procedures.
(e)
The cost of the alternative procedures
(f)
The deployed procedures in similar transactions
Article (22)
The electronic signature shall be considered protected and reliable on the ascertainment of the
followings:
(a)
The signature originating tool, in the course of its usage is limited to the
signatory and no other person.
(b)
The signature originating tool, was at the time of signing under the control of
the signatory and no other person.
(c)
That any alteration to the electronic signature after the time of signing is
discoverable.
(d)
That any alteration in the information related to the signature after the time of
signing is discoverable. However, any concerned person may adduce evidence
to prove that the electronic signature is reliable or not.
Article (23)
1- A person may rely on the electronic signature or the certificate to the extent that such
reliance is reasonable.
2- Where the approved party receives an electronic signature confirmed by certificate, it
is presumed that this party has verified the accuracy of the certificate and its
enforceability and that he relies only on the certificate as issued according to its
conditions.
3- For deciding whether the electronic signature or the certificate is reliable, the
following shall be observed:
(a)
The nature of the transaction intended to be confirmed by the electronic
signature or the certificate.
(b)
The value or the importance of the transaction if this is available.
(c)
That the party relying on the electronic signature or the certificate has taken
appropriate steps to decide whether such electronic signature or the certificate
is reliable.
(d)
Any previous agreement or transaction between the originator and the
approved party
(e)
Any other relevant factor.
Article (24)
The signatory, when using a signature originating tool, to have a signature of legal effect
shall:(a)
Exercise reasonable care to avoid unauthorized use of his signature originating
tool.
(b)
Without undue delay, use all means made available to him by the certification
service provider or use reasonable efforts to notify any person expected to rely

9

on or provide services with reference to the electronic signature in the
following cases:
1- Where the signatory knows that the signature originating tool was misused.
2- Where the circumstances known to the signatory will give rise to great
doubts that the signature originating tool will be misused.
(c)

Exercise reasonable care when using a certificate for confirming an electronic
signature to ensure the accuracy and completeness of all material data made by
the signatory which so related to the certificate throughout its effectiveness
period or those data supposed to be included in certificate.
Chapter Five
Competent Authority

Article (25)
The competent Authority shall undertake the following functions:
(a)
Issuing licenses for affording authentication services according to the
provisions and conditions provided for in this law and its executive regulations
and decisions.
(b)
Determining the licenses fees.
(c)
Importing or giving licenses for importing ciphering tools necessary for
authentication services or that used by the Government units except the
security authorities.
(d)
Exercising control, supervision and inspection over the activities of the
authentication service providers to ensure that they use hardwares, softwares
and secured procedures against intervention and misusing and that they are
committed to the approved performance standards to ensure confidentiality and
security of electronic signatures and certificates.
(e)
Specifying the standards of the authentication service providers.
(f)
Specifying the qualifications and experiences that should be possessed by the
authentication service providers.
(g)
Stipulating the conditions that the authentication service providers are
subjected to.
(h)
Facilitating the institution of any electronic systems by the authentication
service provider individually or with other providers
Article (26)
The competent authority may apply procedure deems to be appropriate for controlling and
supervising the extent of compliance by the authentication services providers with the
provisions of this law and the authority may access any computer system or hardware or data
or any material connected to that system with the purpose of inspection and control. It may
issue orders to any concerned person to afford reasonable technical assistance and other kind
of assistance as it may thinks necessary and that person shall obligate himself to execute such
an order.
Article (27)
The Minister may ask the Minister of Justice to confer quasi-Judicial power on the employees
of the Competent Authority in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Criminal
Procedure.

10

Article (28)
1- The application for the license of providing authentication services shall be submitted
to the competent authority on the form prepared for this purpose.
2- It is not permitted to issue the license of providing authentication service unless the
applicant fulfills the conditions specified by the competent authority and has been
approved by a Ministerial Decision.
3- The license shall be personal and non-transferable and valid for five renewable years.
Article (29)
The competent authority shall have the right to revoke the license after conducting the
required investigation with the authentication service provider in the following cases:
(a) If he submits false statement when applying for issuing or renewing the license.
(b) If he does not abide by the conditions and instructions specified for granting license.
(c) If he violates any of the obligations provided for in Article (34) of this law or the
executive regulations and decisions.
The authentication service provider whose license has been revoked shall give it back to the
competent authority immediately after the issuance of the revocation decision.

Article (30)
The competent authority may, if it has reasonable ground for revoking the license, issue an
order suspending its validity till the completion of the investigation ordered by it provided
that the period of suspension shall not exceed ten (10) days.
Where necessity so demands, the suspension period may be renewed for not more than ten
days provided that the authentication service provider has been notified before renewal in
order to introduce his reasons for not renewing and the authentication service provider should
not issue any certificates during the period of suspension.
Article (31)
1- When suspending or revoking a license of an authentication service provider, the
competent authority shall publicize this in its maintained database.
2- The abovementioned database containing the suspension or revocation shall be 24
hours accessible through the web.
3- The competent authority may publicize the contents of the database through another
electronic means as appropriate and if necessary.
Article (32)
The concerned persons may appeal the decisions of refusal or suspension or revocation of the
license to the Minister and he shall have the right to revoke or amend the decision so appealed
if there are reasons for such revocation or amendment and the executive regulations shall
determine the dates and procedures of submitting the appeal and its settlement.

Chapter Six
Provisions Related to Certificates and Authentication Services
Article (33)
The certificate shall explain the following:
11

(a) The identity of the authentication service provider
(b) That the signatory in the meantime is controlling the signature originating tools
mentioned in the certificate.
(c) The signature originating tool was valid and true at the date of issuing the certificate.
(d) Any restriction on the scope or extent and value within which the certificate may be
used.
(e) Any restrictions on the scope or the extent of the responsibility that the authentication
service provider shall accept toward any person.
(f) Any other informations to be determined by the competent authority.
Article (34)
The authentication service provider shall have obtained the license from the competent
authority and shall be obliged to:
(a) Act in accordance with the data provided by him in respect of his practices.
(b) Verify the accuracy and completeness of all material data contained in the certificate
throughout the duration of its validity.
(c) Provide reasonably accessible means that enable the party who relies on his services to
ascertain of:
(1) The identity of the authentication service provider.
(2) That the identified person in the certificate has control in the meantime over
the signature originating tool mentioned in the certificate.
(3) The method used in identifying the signatory
(4) The existence of any restrictions on the purpose or value that the signature
originating tool will be used for.
(5) The validity of the signature originating tool and that it has not been subject to
suspicions.
(6) The appropriate mean for notifying revocation.
(d) Provide a mean for the signatory to enable him in giving notice in case the signature
originating tool is misused and should ensure the availability of a service for
revocation of the signature to be used in the appropriate time.
(e) Using trustworthy systems, procedures and human resources in the performance of his
services while taking into consideration the following factors:
(1) The financial and human resources.
(2) Trustworthy hardware and software.
(3) The procedure for obtaining certificates and applications for such certificates
and retention of records.
(4) Providing informations related to signatories identified in the certificates and
render informations to parties who probably rely on the authentication
services.
Article (35)
(1) If damage occurs due to inaccuracy of the certificate or because it is defective due to
error or negligence committed by the authentication service provider, then he will
be held responsible for that damage ensued whether to the party who contracted
with him to give him the certificate or any person who reasonably relies on the
certificate.
(2) The authentication service provider shall not be responsible for any damage if he
proves that he didn’t commit any mistake or negligence or that the damage ensued
for a reason out of his control.

12

Article (36)
The authentication service provider shall:
1- Immediately suspend the operation of the certificate upon its owner’s request if it
appears to him or genuinely believe that:
(a)
The certificate was provided upon false or forged
informations.
(b)
The signature originating tools was counterfeited
(c)
The certificate was used for fraudulent purposes.
(d)
The informations included in the certificate were changed.
2- Immediately notify the owner of the certificate on suspension of the certificate and the
reasons therefor.
3- Immediately stop the suspension if the owner of the certificate retracted his request for
suspension or on prove of the validity of informations included in the certificate and
the validity of its usage.
4- The owner of the certificate or any other interested third party shall have the right to
object to the suspension decision issued by the authentication service provider.
Article (37)
The authentication service provider shall revoke the certificate immediately in the following
cases:
(a)
If the owner of the certificate so requests.
(b)
If he knows the death of the owner or the dissolution or liquidation of the
juristic person who possess the certificate.
(c)
If he ensures, after thorough examination, of the accuracy of the reasons on
which he relies on suspending the certificate.
Article (38)
The authentication service provider shall be responsible for the damage ensued as a result of
his failure to take an action to suspend or revoke the certificate in accordance with Article
(36) and (37) of this Law.
Article (39)
The authentication service provider shall undertake the responsibility of depositing all public
keys authorized in accordance with this law and shall keep a database in a computer
containing all public keys in a way to render such a database and the public key available to
the public.
Article (40)
No person is permitted to publicize a certificate referring to an authentication service provider
whose name is appearing on the certificate if that person knows that:
1) The authentication service provider appeared in the certificate has not issued it.
2) The Signatory whose name appeared in the certificate has refused it.
3) The certificate has been suspended or revoked.
However, publication may be allowed for the purpose of ascertaining that the electronic
signature is effected before suspension or revocation.
Article (41)
1- The authentication service provider who desires to stop his activity shall notify the
competent authority (3) three months prior to stoppage.

13

2- The authentication service provider may transfer part of his activity to another
authentication service provider provided that:
(a)
He notifies the owners of the valid certificates of his intention to
transfer the certificates to another provider at least one month prior to
the expected date of transfer.
(b)
He notifies the owners of the certificates of their rights in refusing such
transfer and the deadline for refusal and the method thereof. The
certificates whose owners expressed their refusal shall be revoked in
writing or electronically on the stated deadline.
3- In case of the death or bankruptcy or dissolution of the authentication service provider,
his heirs or liquidators shall be subjected to sub-article (2) of this article provided that
the whole activity shall be transferred within three months.
4- In all cases of stopping the activity, the personal informations that remain under the
control of the authentication service provider shall be destroyed in the presence of the
competent authority representative.
Article (42)
1- In determining the accuracy and validity of the certificate or electronic signature no
regard should be had to the place where the certificate is issued or the electronic
signature is effected or the jurisdiction within which the place of business of the
certificate issuer is located or the electronic signature is effected.
2- The certificates issued by foreign authentication service providers shall be the same as
those issued by authentication service providers who act pursuant to this law if the
practices of the foreign authentication service provider has got that level of credibility
not less than the level required from the authentication service providers who have
been subjected to the provisions of this law taking into consideration the recognized
international practices.
3- The certificates issued by foreign authentication service provider shall not be
recognized unless by a ministerial decision.
4- To decide the validity of a certificate or electronic signature, any agreement between
the parties in respect of the transaction in which that signature is used or the certificate
is issued, or in respect of the obligation of a specific authentication service provider or
specific group of authentication service providers to use a specific type of certificates
in relation to electronic messages or signatures introduced to them, shall be
considered, provided that such agreement shall not be contrary to the laws of the
Sultanate of Oman.

Chapter Seven
Protection of Private Data
Article (43)
Any government body or authentication service provider may collect personal data directly
from the concerned person or from others after his explicit approval, only for the purpose of
issuing a certificate or keeping it or facilitating such issuing or keeping. It is not permitted to
collect or process or use such data for any other purpose without the explicit consent of the
person from whom such data is collected.
As an exception from the above paragraph, the collection or disclosing or providing or
processing of personal data shall be legal in the following cases:14

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

If these data are necessary to prevent or discover a crime on official request
from the investigation authorities.
If these data are required or authorized by any law or by a court decision.
If these data are necessary for the estimation or collection of any taxes or fees.
If the processing is necessary for the protection of the person from whom data
is collected.

Article (44)
Subject to the second paragraph of the above article, the authentication service provider shall
follow the appropriate procedure to ensure confidentiality of the personal data in his
possession in the course of his business and he shall not be allowed to disclose or transfer or
declare or publicize these data for any purpose.
Article (45)
Any person who controls any personal data by virtue of his job in electronic transactions
shall, before processing such data, notify the person from whom it is collected by a designated
notice of the procedure he is following to protect those data. These procedures shall include
an identification of the person responsible for processing the data, the nature of the data, and
the purpose, methods and locations of processing and all informations necessary to ensure
secured data processing.
Article (46)
The authentication service provider shall, upon the request of the person from whom data is
collected, enable that person to have access to or update those personal data. Such right shall
include the right of accessing all personal databases related to the person from whom it is
collected, and shall make available to him all the appropriate technical means for this purpose.
Article (47)
The users of the personal data collected pursuant to Article (43) of this law, shall not be
allowed to send electronic documents to the person from whom such data is collected if he
explicitly refuses to accept them.
Article (48)
Any person controlling personal data is not allowed to process these data if the processing
will cause damage to persons from whom such data is collected or will prejudice their rights
and freedoms.
Article (49)
When the personal data are supposed to be transferred outside Oman, regard shall be had to
the security of such information, in particular:
(a)
Nature of personal data.
(b)
Source of information and data.
(c)
Purpose for which the data are to be processed and duration of process.
(d)
The country of destination where the data were transferred, its international
obligation, and the law applicable.
(e)
Any related rules applied in that country.
(f)
The security measures taken to secure that data in that country.

15

Chapter Eight
Government Use of Electronic Records and Signatures
Article (50)
The government may use electronic records and signatures to carry out the following tasks:
(a)
Accept depositing or presenting or originating or maintaining documents.
(b)
Issue any permission or license or decision or approval.
(c)
Accept fees or any payments.
(d)
Issue tenders and receive bids related to government purchases.
Article (51)
The government may, if so decided to carry out any of the abovementioned tasks
electronically, determine:
(a)
The form and method by which the records are to be originated or deposited or
maintained or presented or issued.
(b)
The form, method, shape and procedure of tendering and receiving bids and
procurement of government purchases.
(c)
The type of electronic signature required including the condition that the
originator shall use another protected electronic signature.
(d)
The form and method by which the electronic signature is to be fixed on the
record and the standard to be met by the authentication service provider to
whom the records are presented for depositing and maintaining.
(e)
The appropriate operations and procedures of control required to ensuring
safety, security and confidentiality of electronic records, payment of fees.
(f)
Any other specifications or conditions or other provisions for sending paper
based documents if so is required in relation to the electronic records of
payment and fees.

Chapter Nine
Penalties
Article (52)
Without prejudice to any hard penalty provided for by the Omani Penal Law or any other
Law, a person shall be punished by imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and a
fine not exceeding RO 5000 (Five thousands Omani Riyals) or both, if he:
1- Causes intentionally unauthorized amendment in the contents of any computer with
the intention of weakening its efficacy or preventing or hindering access to any
program or data maintained therein or weakening the efficacy of that program or
diminishing the reliability of those data if the so called amendment takes place in any
of the following ways:
(a)
Deleting any program or data maintained in the computer.
(b)
Adding any program or data to the contents of the computer.
(c)
Any act contributing in effecting that amendment.
2- Penetrates a computer or a series of computers or a web site or an internet site which
resulted in:
(a)
Breaking down the operating systems of the computer or the series of
computers.
16

(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Damaging the computer programs or the computers and the informations
contained therein.
Stealing informations.
Using the informations contained in the computers for illegal purpose.
Entering incorrect informations.

3- Fraudulently breaks through the information system or the database with the purpose
of misusing the electronic signatures.
4- Illegally discloses the deciphering keys or to deciphering informations deposited with
him.
5- Illegally uses personal deciphering components related to signatures of other persons.
6- Penetrates or intercepts encrypted information or data, or intentionally deciphers them
without a legal justification. The penalty shall be doubled if the information or data are
related to the state confidentiality.
7- Intentionally unlock encrypted information or data by any means in legally
unauthorized situations.
8- Intentionally creates or publicizes a certificate or provides incorrect electronic
information for illegal purposes.
9- Presents incorrect data about his identity, or he mandates the authentication service
provider so as to issue, cancel, or suspend a certificate.
10- Intentionally, without authorization, discloses confidential data that he is able to
access using his authorities stipulated by this or any other law.
11- Exercises the activity of authentication service provider without being licensed.
12- Illegally uses a signature originating tool related to another person’s signature.
13- Illegally accesses a computer so as to commit or make it easy for committing a crime
by himself or by another person.
14- Counterfeits an electronic record or a signature or used it though he knows it is
counterfeited.
15- Intentionally and illegally publicizes, makes it easy to publicize, or uses an electronic
record or signature, or decipher it. The penalty shall be doubled if the perpetrator is a
custodian to that record or signature by virtue of his profession or employment.
Article (53)
Without prejudice to any hard punishment provided for by the Omani Penal Law, or any other
Law a person shall be punished with imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year and
with a fine not exceeding RO 1500 (one thousand and five hundred Oman Riyals) or with one
of the two punishments:
1. Any person who makes or possesses or obtains informations system or program
for originating an electronic signature without the explicit consent of the owner of
the signature.
2. Any owner of a ciphering key who refuses to hand it over to the employee
specified by the competent authority after disclosing his identity.
3. Any authentication service provider or any one of his staff who refuses to provide
assistance to the competent authority or to any of its employees in controlling or
supervising or inspecting a computer system or data system or any other materials
related to the computer at the office of the authentication service provider.
Article (54)
In case of conviction under this law, the court shall decree, in addition to any punishment, the
confiscation of tools used in the commission of the crime.
17

