Anti-Cyber Crime Law
(8 Rabi1, 1428 / 26 March 2007)

Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Bureau of Experts at the Council of Ministers
Official Translation Department
Translation of Saudi Laws
Anti-Cyber Crime Law
Royal Decree No. M/17
8 Rabi 1

1428 / 26 March 2007

First Edition 2009

No. M/17
Date: 8/3/1428H
With the help of Almighty God,
We, Abdullah bin Abdulazlz Al-Saud,
King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
Pursuant to Article 70 of the Basic Law of Governance, issued by Royal Order
No. (A/90), dated 27/8/1412 H; And pursuant to Article 20 of the Law of the
Council of Ministers, issued by Royal Order No. (A/13), dated 3/3/1414 H;
And pursuant to Article 18 of the Shura Council Law, issued by Royal Order
No. (A/91), dated 27/8/1412 H; And upon perusal of the Shura Council's
Resolutions No. (68/43), dated 16/9/1427 H; And upon perusal of the
Council of Ministers' Resolution No. (79), dated 7/3/1428 H; Have decreed as
follows:
Firstly: the Anti-Cyber Crime Law as per the attached form shall be
approved.
Secondly: His Highness, the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, and
the Ministers, each within their jurisdiction, shall implement this decree of
ours.
(Signed)
Abdullah bin Abdulaziz

Article 1:
The following terms and phrases, wherever mentioned in this Law, shall have the meanings
expressed next to them, unless the context requires otherwise:
1.

Person: Any natural or corporate person, whether public or private.

2.

Information System: A set of programs and devices designed for managing and including
computers.

3.

Information Network: An interconnection of more than one computer or processing data,
information system to obtain and exchange data, e. g. Local Area Network (LAN), Wide
Area Network (WAN), and World Wide Web (Internet).

4.

Data: Information, commands, messages, voices, or images which are prepared or have
been prepared for use in computers. This includes data that can be saved, processed,
transmitted, or constructed by computers, such as numbers, letters, codes, etc

5.

Computer Programs: As a set of commands and data which contain guidelines or
applications when run in computers or computer networks to perform required functions.

6.

Computer: Any electronic device whether movable or fixed, wired or wireless, which is
equipped with a system to process, store, transmit, receive or browse data and perform
specific functions according to programs and commands.

7.

Unauthorized Access: The deliberate, unauthorized access by any person to computers,
websites, information systems, or computer networks.

8.

Cyber Crime: Any action which involves the use of computers or computer networks, in
violation of the provisions of this Law.

9.

Web Site: A site providing data on the information network through specific Uniform
Resource Locator (URL).

10. Reception: Illegal viewing or obtaining of date.
Article 2
This Law aims at combating cyber crimes by identifying such crimes and determining their
punishments to ensure the following:
1.

Enhancement of information security.

2.

Protection of rights pertaining to the legitimate use of computers and information
networks.

3.

Protection of public Interest, morals, and common values.

4.

Protection of national economy.

Article 3:
Any person who commits one of the following cyber crimes shall be subject to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding one year and a fine not exceeding live hundred thousand riyals or to either
punishment:

1.

Spying on, interception or reception of data transmitted through an information network or
a computer without legitimate authorization.

2.

Unlawful access to computers with the intention to threaten or blackmail any person to
compel him to take or refrain from taking an action, be it lawful or unlawful.

3.

Unlawful access to a web site, or hacking a web site with the intention to change its design,
destroy or modify it, or occupy its URL.

4.

Invasion of privacy through the misuse of camera-equipped mobile phones and the like.

5.

Defamation and infliction of damage upon others through the use of various information
technology devices.

Article 4
Any person who commits one of the following cyber crimes shall be subject to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding three years and a fine not exceeding two million riyals, or to either
punishment:
1.

Acquisition of movable property or bonds for oneself or others or signing such bonds
through fraud or use of false name or identity.

2.

Illegally accessing bank or credit data, or data pertaining to ownership of securities with the
intention of obtaining data, information, funds or services offered.

Article 5:
Any person who commits one of the following cyber crimes shall be subject to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding four years and a fine not exceeding three million riyals or to either
punishment:
1.

Unlawful access to computers with the intention to delete, erase, destroy, leak, damage,
alter or redistribute private data

2.

Causing the information network to halt or breakdown, or destroying, deleting, leaking or
altering existing or stored programs or data.

3.

Obstruction of access to, distortion, and causing the breakdown of services by any means.

Article 6:
Any person who commits one of the following cyber crimes shall be subject to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding five years and a fine not exceeding three million riyals or to either
punishment:
1.

Production, preparation, transmission, or storage of material impinging on public order,
religious values, public morals, and privacy, through the information network or computers.

2.

The construction or publicizing of a website on the information network or computer to
promote or facilitate human trafficking.

3.

The preparation, publication, and promotion of material for pornographic or gambling sites
which violates public morals.

4.

The construction or publicizing of a web site on the information network or computer to
trade in, distribute, demonstrate method of use or facilitate dealing in narcotic and
psychotropic drugs.

Article 7:
Any person who commits one of the following cyber crimes shall be subject to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding ten years, and a fine not exceeding five million riyals or to either punishment:
1.

The construction or publicizing of a website on the information network or on a computer
for terrorist organizations to facilitate communication with leaders or members of such
organizations, finance them, promote their ideologies, publicize methods of making
incendiary devices or explosives, or any other means used in terrorist activities.

2.

Unlawful access to a web site or an information system directly, or through the information
network or any computer with the Intention of obtaining data jeopardizing the internal or
external security of the State or its national economy.

Article 8:
The imprisonment and the fine may not be less than half the maximum if the crime is coupled with
one of the following:
1.

The crime is perpetrated through organized crime.

2.

The offender holds a public office and the crime perpetrated relates to this office, or if he
perpetrates the crime using his power or influence.

3.

The luring and exploiting of minors and the like.

4.

The offender has been previously convicted of similar crimes within or outside the Kingdom.

Article 9:
Any person who incites, assists or collaborates with others to commit any of the crimes stipulated in
this Law shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding the maximum punishment designated for
such crimes, if the crime is committed as a result of said incitement, assistance or collaboration,
and he shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding half the maximum punishment designated, if
the intended crime is not committed.
Article 10:
Any person who attempts to commit any of the crimes stipulated in this Law shall be subject to a
punishment not exceeding half the maximum punishment designated for said crimes.
Article 11:
The competent court may exempt an offender from such punishments if he informs the competent
authority of the crime prior to its discovery and prior to the infliction of damage. If the culprit
informs the competent authority after the occurrence of the crime, the exemption from punishment
shall be granted if the information he provides eventually leads to the arrest of the other culprits

and the seizure of the means used in the perpetration of the crime.
Article 12:
Application of this Law shall not prejudice the provisions of relevant laws, especially those pertaining
to intellectual property rights, nor relevant international agreements to which the Kingdom is party.
Article 13:
Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide persons, equipment, software, and means used in
perpetrating any of the crimes stipulated in this Law or the proceeds generated therefrom may be
confiscated. In addition, the website or the venue where the service is provided may be shut down
permanently or temporarily if it is the source for perpetrating the crime and the crime is committed
with the owner's knowledge.
Article 14:
The Communications and Information Technology Commission, pursuant to its powers, shall provide
the assistance and technical support to competent security agencies during the Investigation stages
of such crimes and during trial.
Article 15:
The Bureau of Investigation and Public Prosecution shall carry out the investigation and prosecution
of crimes stipulated In this Law.
Article 16:
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force one hundred twenty
days after the date of publication.

This translation is provided for guidance. The governing text is the Arabic text.

