REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

LAWS, REGULATIONS AND COMMUNITY MEASURES RELATIVE TO THE

PERTSONNAL DATA PROTECTION IN SENEGAL

COMPILATION OF THE SPECIFIC FOR THE PROTECTION OF
PERSONAL DATA IN SENEGAL

1. LAW N 2008-12 OF JANUARY 25TH, 2008 CONCERNING PERSONAL
DATA PROTECTION

2. DECREE N 2008-721 OF JUNE 30TH, 2008 CONCERNING LAW
ENFORCEMENT N 2008-12 OF JANUARY 25TH, 2008 CONCERNING THE
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION

3. LAW N 2008 - 11 OF JANUARY 25TH, 2008 CONCERNING THE
CYBERCRIME

1

LAW N 2008-12 OF JANUARY 25TH, 2008 CONCERNING THE PERSONAL
DATA PRORACTION
PREAMBLE
With the development of computer science and its applications, the traditional
domain of privacy grows is daily enriched by new items. Integral part of these
elements, personal data turn to be highly desired resources. Their treatment must
take place "respecting the rights, fundamental freedoms, and the dignity of the
individuals". Therefore, the legislation on the personal data turns out to be an
instrument of general protection towards the fundamental rights and freedoms.
Despite starting of the governmental Intranet, the development of the appeal to IT
in the administration, in the private sector and its use by the people, the
digitalization of the electoral file and the national ID card, so pulling the
generation, the collection and the personal data processing, the Senegalese
substantive law does not fix the frame and the legal regime of these operations.
The aim of the present bill is to fill this gap in the law.
Taking as a basis the guiding principles for the regulations of computerized files
containing personal data promulgated by the UN General Assembly in 1990, the
European requirements regarding data transfer to third countries and the
fundamental principles dedicated by the guidance law on the information society,
the present bill on the personal data protection indicated abbreviated as (LDCP)
offers another high level of protection.
The bill on the personal data protection organizes diverse diets of protection and
settles the question of the institutional anchoring by creating an independent
authority loaded with the implementation of the diets of protection.
The present bill includes seven (7) chapters.
The first chapter, on general arrangements relative to the personal, fixed data
protection the object of the law, confined its scope and defines the various used
terms.
The chapter II establishes an independent called authority "Committee of the
Personal data" (CDP). She guarantees the respect for private life in the processing
of personal data.
The chapter III fixes the various modalities of personal data processing.

2

The chapter IV concerns the rights of the person the personal data of which are
the object of a treatment.
The chapter V is concerning the obligations of the person in charge of personal
data processing.
The chapter VI is concerning the penal capacities. Unless otherwise stipulated,
the present bill sends back to the penal code for the incrimination and the
repression of breaches of its capacities.
The chapter VII puts the passing and final capacities. By these, dispensations are
put for certain existing files and the effective date of the personal data protection
law is indicated according to the type of considered data.
FIRST CHAPTER: GENERAL CAPACITIES
SECTION PREMIERE: OBJECT OF THE LAW ON THE PERSONAL DATA
First article:
The present law has for object to set up a device allowing fighting against
invasions of privacy susceptible to be engendered by the collection, the treatment,
the transmission, the storage and the use of the personal data.
She guarantees that any treatment, in any form whatsoever, respects the liberties
and the fundamental rights of the physical persons; she also takes into account the
privileges of the State, the rights of local authorities, interests of companies and
civil society.
She watches that the technologies of information and the Communication (ICTS)
do not strike a blow to personal freedoms or public, in particular in the private
life.
Article 71 of the decree:
When the Committee of the personal data notices that the implementation of a personal
data processing, pulls a violation of the fundamental rights and the liberties mentioned in
the 1st article of the law on the personal data, his President can call out, by every possible
means, to the person in charge of the aforementioned treatment.
Article 72 of the decree:
When a treatment is made for the State, of a legal entity of public law or a legal entity of
private law managing a public service, the President of the Committee of the personal data
informs, as soon as possible, the Prime Minister of the noticed violation.

3

SECTION II: SCOPE OF THE LAW ON THE PERSONAL DATA
Article 2:
Are subjected to the present law:
1) Any collection, any treatment, any transmission, any storage and any use of
the personal data by a natural person, by the State, the local authorities, the
moral persons of public law or private law;
2) Any automated treatment or not of data contained or called to appear in a
file, with the exception of treatments mentioned in the article 3 of the
present law;
3) Any implemented treatment by a person in charge such as defined in the
article 4.14 of the present law on the Senegalese territory or in any place
where the Senegalese law applies;
4) Any implemented treatment by a person in charge, established or not on
the Senegalese territory, which resorts to ways of treatment situated on the
Senegalese territory, with the exception of the ways which are used only for
purposes of transit on this territory. In the cases aimed at the previous
paragraph, the person in charge of the treatment has to appoint a
representative established on the Senegalese territory, without prejudice of
actions which can be introduced against him/her;
5) Any data processing concerning the law and order, the defense, the search
and the pursuit of penal breaches or the safety of the State, even bound to
an important economic or financial interest of the State, subject to the
dispensations which defines the present law and specific provisions on the
subject fixed by other laws.
Article 3 :
This Act does not apply to:
1) Data processing carried out by an individual in the exclusive setting of
personal or household activity, provided that the data are not intended for
systematic communication to third parties or dissemination;
2) Temporary copies made in the course of technical transfer activities
and providing access to a digital network for the automatic, intermediate
and transient data and the sole purpose of allowing other recipients of the
service the best access possible to the transmitted information.
SECTION III: DEFINITIONS
Article 4:
In the sense of the present law, we hear by:
1) Code of conduct: any project rules, in particular the charters of use,
developed by the person in charge of the treatment, in accordance with the
present law, to establish a correct use of the computing resources, the
4

Internet and the electronic communications of the concerned structure and
approved by the Committee of the Personal data;
2) Electronic communications: broadcasts, transmissions or receptions of
signs, signals, papers, images or sounds, by electronic or magnetic way;
3) Temporary copies: data copied temporarily in a dedicated space, for a timelimited duration, for the needs for the purposes of the operation processing
software.
4) Consent of the person concerned any event will express, unequivocal, free,
specific and informed by the person concerned or his legal representative,
legal or conventional, agrees that his personal data are subject to manual
processing or mail;
5) Recipient of a treatment of personal data: Any person entitled to receive
such data other than the data subject, the controller, the processor and the
persons who, by reason of their duties, are responsible for processing the
data. However, public authorities legally empowered within a particular
mission or exercise a right of communication may request the controller to
communicate their personal data ;
6) Personal data: any relative information for one person identified or
recognizable physical appearance directly or indirectly, in reference to a
number of identification or in reference to one or several elements,
appropriate to his physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, cultural, social
or economic identity;
7) Genetic data Any data concerning the hereditary characteristics of an
individual or a group of related individuals ;
8) Critical data: all the personal data relative to the opinions or the religious
activities , philosophic, political, labor-union activities, to the sexual or
racial life, to the health, to the measures of social order, to the pursuits, to
the penal or administrative penalties;
9) Data in the field of health: Any information relating to the physical and
mental state of a person, including genetic data above;
10) File of personal data: Any structured set of data accessible according to
specific criteria that whether centralized, decentralized or dispersed on a
functional or geographical basis;
11) Interconnection of personal data: any connection mechanism consisting
linking of data processed for a specified with other data processed for the
same or purposes or linked by one or more controllers purpose;
12) Third country: any State other than Senegal;
13) Nobody concerned: every natural person who is the object of a personal
data processing;
14) Direct prospecting: any request made by means of the sending of message,
whatever is the support or the in particular commercial, political or
charitable nature, intended to promote, directly or indirectly, the
properties, the services or the image of a person selling the properties or
5

supplying with services;
15) Responsible for the processing: the natural or legal person, public or
private, any other organism or association which, alone or jointly with
others, decides to collect and to process personal data and determines the
purposes.
16) Subcontractor: any natural or legal entity, public or private, any other body
or association which processes data for the person in charge of the
treatment;
17) Remote service: any value-added service offer, leaning on
telecommunications and\or on computing, to allow, in an interactive way
and at a distance, for one person physical or moral, public or private, the
possibility of making activities, steps or formalities, etc.
18) Third: any natural or legal entity, public or private, any other body or
association other than the concerned person, the person in charge of the
treatment, the subcontractor and the people which, placed under the direct
authority of the person in charge of the treatment or the subcontractor, are
authorized to process the data;
19) Personal data processing: any operation or set of operations planned in the
article 2 of the present law made or not by means of automated processes or
not, and applied to data, such as the collection, the exploitation, the
recording, the organization, the preservation, the adaptation, the
modification, the extraction, the protection, the copy, the consultation, the
use, the communication by transmission, the distribution or any other
shape of provision, the link or the interconnection, as well as the locking,
the encryption, the disappearance or the destruction of the personal data.
First article of the decree:
We hear by:
1) Charters of use: any document setting the general out the terms and conditions
of personal data processing as well as the rights and the obligations of the
person in charge of the treatment and the user of this one;
2) Committee of the personal data: the name of the Committee of personal Data
protection (CDP) planned by the article 5 of the law on the personal data;
3) Anonymous personal data: data that can be correlated with an identified or
identifiable;
4) Coded personal data: the data can be correlated with an identified or identifiable
person only through a predefined code ;
5) Personal data processed for historical, statistical or scientific purpose: any
transaction collection and processing of personal data for scientific
purposes, General information, assistance in planning and decision-making;
6) Access right: the right for every person to obtain information on data
concerning him and to obtain a copy;
6

7) Right to information: The right of every person whether data relating to him are
being processed and to obtain from the controller the information thereon ;
8) Right of rectification: The right of everyone to require the data controller to
rectify, complete, update, lock or delete data relating to him that are inaccurate,
incomplete, ambiguous, outdated or whose collection, use , communication or
storage is forbidden ;
9) Later treatment of personal data: the hypothesis where the person in charge of a
personal data processing, in the context of its usual and legitimate activities,
wishes to reuse himself these data or communicate them.
CHAPITRE II: COMMITTEE FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
SECTION FIRST: STATUS, COMPOSITION AND ORGANIZATION

Article 5:
It is created a Committee of Personal Data Protection called "Committee of the
Personal data" in summary the "CDP".
The Committee of Personal Data is an independent authority asked to ensure that
the personal data processing is implemented in accordance with the provisions of
the present law.
She informs concerned people and the persons in charge of treatment of their
rights and duties and makes sure that ICT do not contain in terms of civil liberties
and privacy.
Article 6:
The Committee of the Personal is composed of eleven (11) members, selected
because of their legal and\or technical skill, as follows:
1) Three (3) personalities appointed by the President of the Republic;
2) One (1) deputy appointed by the President of the National Assembly;
3) One (1) senator appointed by the President of the Senate;
4) One (1) representing employers' organizations appointed by the Secretary
in charge of professional organizations, subject to provisions of the article 9
of the present law;
5) A magistrate member of council of State indicated on proposal of the
President of the Council of State;
6) A member magistrate of the Highest Court of Appeal indicated on proposal
of the First President of the Highest Court of Appeal;
7) A lawyer indicated by the President of the bar of the order of the lawyers of
Senegal;
8) A representative of the organizations of defense of man's rights indicated
by Minister of Justice, Lord Chancellor, on proposal of the High
commission to human rights and to the Promotion of the Peace;
7

9) The Branch manager Of the Computing of the State (ADIE).
Members of the Committee of Personal data are appointed by decree.
Government Commissioner, appointed by the Prime Minister, is registered with
the Committee of the Personal data. Government Commissioner is summoned to
all the sessions of the Committee, in the same conditions as the members of this
one. He informs the Committee about the orientations of the government and
about the motivations of the administration concerning the implementation of
treatments but does not vote.
Article 7 of the decree:
In application of the paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the law on personal data, Government
Commissioner is registered with the Committee of the personal data in particular for:
1) Receive a copy of the request for an opinion or authorization presented for the
State, a legal entity under public law or private entity of private law managing
a public service;
2) Provide upon request, a copy of any statement, notice or request permission
3) Provide upon request, written or oral observations on any statement, notice or
request permission;
4) Establish annually, before December 31st, a report to the Prime Minister on the
personal data processing made for the State, of a legal entity under public law
or a legal entity in private law managing a public service.
In case of absence or in case of hindrance, Government Commissioner is replaced by
a substitute appointed according to provisions of the article 6 of the law on personal
data. Summoned under the same conditions as other members of the Committee of
the personal data, its absence cannot prevent the holding of the works of the
Committee.
Government Commissioner is appointed for a term of two (2) the years, renewable
only once.
Article 8 of the decree:
The proposals for appointment of members of the Commission of personal data
referred to in Articles 6 and following of the law on personal data, for the
appointment of new members and the reappointment of the members in office,
should be addressed within six months prior to the expiration of the term thereof.
Article 7:
The President of the Republic appoint among the members of the Committee of
Personal data, the President of the aforementioned Committee. The President is
assisted by a vice-president elected by the Committee of the Personal data.

8

The Committee of the Personal data has services placed under the authority of his
President. She has; besides, a staff provided by the State and can provide in agents
recruitment according to the provisions of the Labor code.
The sworn agents, according to the paragraph 2 of the article 11 of the present law
and who can be called to participate in the implementation of the missions of
check mentioned in the article 25 of the present law must be authorized by the
Committee there. This authorization does not dispense the application of
capacities defining the procedures authorizing the access to the secrets protected
by the law.
Article 3 of the decree:
The members of the Committee of the personal data meet in plenary session on summons of the
President. Failing that, the summons is of right at the request of the majority of the members of
the Committee of the personal data.
The summons, specifying the agenda, can be made by electronic way.
The sessions of the Committee of the personal data are not public.
Article 4 of the decree:
The election of the vice-president has to take place during the first meeting of the Committee of
the personal data.
The President of the Committee of the personal data can delegate some of his powers to the vicepresident or to his collaborators, the members of the aforementioned Committee.
Article 8:
The mandate of the members of the Committee of the Personal data is four (4) the
years renewable once. With the exception of the President, the members of the
Committee of the Personal data do not perform their function on an exclusive
basis. The members of the Committee of the Personal data are irremovable during
the duration of their mandate.
He can be ended the functions of member, that in case of resignation or in case of
hindrance noticed by the Committee of the Personal data in the conditions
planned by decree.
The members of the Committee of the Personal data are subjected to the
professional secrecy according to the current texts.
The Committee of the Personal data establishes an internal rules which specifies,
in particular, rules relative to deliberations, to instruction and to presentation of
files.

9

Miss an arrangement on the renewal of the members;
Rules relative to the organization and to the functioning of the Committee are
fixed by decree.
Article 2 of the decree:
The President of the Committee of the personal data assumes the daily management of the
aforementioned Committee, manages the secretarial department, chairs the meetings in his
various trainings or delegates another member to this end.
[…
Article 5 of the decree:
The Committee of the personal data establishes its internal rules, according to the
paragraph 4 of the article 8 of the law on the personal data within one month after its
installation.
Article 6 of the decree:
The Committee of the personal data can validly deliberate that if the majority of his
members at least are present. The votes take place freehand and all the decisions are
adopted in the absolute majority of the present members.
In case of parity of votes, that of the President or, if he is prevented, of his deputy, is
dominating. Every session of the Committee of the personal data gives rise to a report
signed by the members of the Committee having sat.
Article 9:
The membership of the Committee of the Personal data is incompatible with the
membership of the Government, the exercise of the functions of company
directors, the detention of participation in the companies of the IT sector or the
telecommunications.
Any member of the Committee of the Personal data has to inform this one of the
direct or indirect interests that it holds or comes to hold, functions which it
exercises or comes to practice and of any mandate which it holds or comes to hold
within a legal entity.
Where necessary, the committee takes all the useful capacities to assure the
independence and the impartiality of his members. A code of conduct is set up by
the committee for that purpose.
Article 10:
If in the course of mandate the president or the member of the Committee of the
Personal data stops performing its functions, he is preceded to his replacement in
the conditions planned by articles 6 - 8 of the present law.

10

The mandate of the successor so indicated is limited to the period remaining to
run. The latter can be indicated for a single mandate.
Article 11:
The members of the Committee of the Personal data, before their taking office,
lend in front of the Court of Appeal of Dakar sitting in solemn audience the oath
by which the content follows: "I swear solemnly of well and faithfully to fill my
function of member of the Committee of personal Data protection, in any
independence and impartiality in a deserving and loyal way and to keep the secret
of deliberations".
Other agents chosen by the Committee of the Personal data take the oath in front
of the regional court of Dakar in these terms: "I swear of well and loyally to fill my
functions of agent of the" Committee of the Personal data "in any independence
and impartiality, and to keep the secret of deliberations.
Article 2 of the decree:
[…]
He (the President of the Committee) is in charge of organizing, as soon as possible, in
application of provisions of the article 11 of the law on the personal data, the swearing-in of
the members and agents were chosen by the Committee of the personal data.
Article 12:
The members of the Committee of the Personal data enjoy a total immunity for the
opinions emitted in the exercise or on the occasion of the exercise of their function.
In the exercise of their allocation, the members of the Committee of the Personal
data receive instruction of no authority.
Article 13:
The members of the Committee of the Personal data perceive compensations fixed
by decree.
Article 14:
The Committee of the Personal data enjoys the autonomy of management. The
budget is prepared by the President and adopted by the Committee of the
Personal data.
The President of the Committee of the Personal data is the regulator of the budget,
he applies the rules of the public accounting.

11

Article 15:
For the fulfillment of its missions, the Committee of the Personal data receives a
budgetary subsidy of the State.
The Committee of the Personal data can receive from gift or subsidy of an
individual, a body or a foreign State that through a structure of cooperation of the
State of Senegal.
SECTION II: ATTRIBUTIONS OF THE "COMMITTEE OF THE PERSONAL DATA"
Article 16:
The Committee of the Personal data exercises the following missions:
1) She watches that the personal data processing is implemented according to
the capacities of the present law.
2) She informs the concerned people and the persons in charge of treatment of
their rights and duties. For that purpose,
a) She receives the preliminary formalities in the creation of personal
data processing;
b) She receives the complaints, the petitions and the complaints relative
to the implementation of the personal data processing and informs
their authors of consequences given to these;
c) She informs immediately public prosecutor of the breaches whose
knowledge she has;
d) She can, by particular decision, ask one or several of her members or
agents of her services to proceed to checks concerning any treatment
and, where necessary, to obtain copies of any document or
information medium useful for her mission;
e) She can, in the conditions defined to articles 29 - 32 of the present
law to pronounce a penalty towards a person in charge of treatment;
f) She answers any demand of opinion.
3) She approves the charters of use which are presented to him;
4) She holds a directory of the personal data processing at the disposal of the
public;
5) She advises the people and the bodies which resort to the personal data
processing or which proceed to tries or experiences likely to end in such
treatments;
6) She authorizes, in the conditions planned by the present law, the crossborder transfers of personal data;
7) She presents to the government any suggestion susceptible to simplify and
to improve the legal and statutory framework towards the data processing;
8) She cooperates with the authorities of personal data protection of the third
countries, participates in the international negotiations regarding personal
12

data protection;
9) She publishes the granted authorizations and the notices emitted in the
directory of the personal data processing;
10) She establishes every year an annual report put back to the President of the
Republic and to the President of the National Assembly.
Article 10 of the decree:
The Committee of the personal data is competent to formulate any useful
recommendations to watch that the personal data processing is implemented according
to the provisions of above-mentioned law as well as those of the present decree.
Article 11 of the decree:
With the exception of the information interesting the safety of the State, the defense or
the law and order, the directory of the personal data processing, is open to the public
according to the following modalities:
1) The consultation in premises of the Committee of the personal data according to
days and hours fixed by the President of the aforementioned Committee;
2) The consultation by means of a demand, in an form of extract, sent to the
Committee of the personal data;
3) The consultation on quite different support planned by the Committee of the
personal data.
The consultation of the directory of the personal data processing is free.
SECTION III:

FORMALITES PREREQUISITES HAS THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DATA

PROCESSING HAS CARACTERE STAFF

Article 17:
Are exempted from the preliminary formalities planned to following articles:
1) Treatments mentioned in the article 3 of the present law;
2) Treatments having for only object the maintained of a record which, by
virtue of legal or statutory measures, is exclusively intended for the
information of the public and is opened to the consultation of this one or
every person proving a justifiable interest;
3) The implemented treatments by an association or any non-profit
organization and with religious, philosophic, political or labor-union
character since these data correspond to the object of this association or this
body, since they concern only their members and since they should not be
communicated with thirds.

13

Article 22 of the decree:
The exemption of preliminary formalities planned by the article 17 of the law on the personal
data does not exempt the person in charge of the treatment to respect the principles put by the
above-mentioned law to guarantee the rights of the concerned people.
Article 18:
Except the cases planned to articles 17, 20 and 21 of the present law, the personal
data processing are the object of a statement with the Committee of the Personal
data. The Committee gives evidence by an acknowledgement of receipt of any
statement. She frees, within one (1) month, a receipt which allows the applicant to
put in work the treatment without exempting him however from any of the
responsibilities. This deadline can be once extended on decision motivated of the
Committee.
The statement, in compliance with a model established by the Committee, contains
the commitment which the treatment satisfies the requirements of the law.
However, only the reception of the receipt gives the right to the implementation of
a treatment.
Article 21 of the decree:
The person in charge of the treatment undertakes to realize a statement in compliance with
the reality of the envisaged treatment.
Article 24 of the decree:
When the statement satisfies the prescriptions of the law on the personal data, the
Committee of the personal data frees the receipt planned in the article 18 of the abovementioned law.
The declaratory formalities are considered carried out as from the delivery of the receipt
aimed at the previous paragraph of the present article. The treatment can then be
implemented by the declarer under its responsibility.
When the receipt is freed by electronic way, the person in charge of the treatment can ask
for it for a copy on paper base.
Article 19:
For the most common categories of personal data processing of which the
implementation may not infringe on privacy or in the liberties, the Committee of
the Personal data establishes and publishes standards intended to simplify or to
exempt the obligation to report.
These standards can take into account the codes of conduct approved by the
Committee of the Personal data.

14

Article 23 of the decree:
Can be the object of a simplified statement the implemented personal data processing:
1) By the bodies public and deprived for the management of their staffs;
2) On the scene of work for the management of the access controls in premises,
schedules and the restoration;
3) Within the framework of the use of services of fixed and mobile telephony on the
scene of work.
Article 26 of the decree:
The Committee of the personal data can define models of forms simplified for the demands
of opinion, ratification of the charters of use, statements and authorization, matched, where
necessary, appendices intended to complete the information. The standards intended to
simplify or to exempt the obligation to report established by the Committee of the personal
data in application of the article 19 of the law on the personal data are published to the
Gazette.
Except as otherwise provided, forms can be removed free of charge with the Committee of
the personal data
Article 431-17 Penal code:
Whoever will have, even by carelessness, proceeded or makes proceed to personal data
processing without having respected the preliminary formalities in their implementation
statutory on the personal data, will be punished for a detention of one (1) the year in seven (7)
the years and of a fine from 500.000 francs to 10.000.000 francs or one of these two
punishments only.
Article 431-19 Penal code:
When he was proceeded or made proceed to a personal data processing in the conditions
planned by the article 19 of the law on the data personal aforesaid, whoever will not have
respected, including by carelessness, the simplified standards or exemption established for that
purpose by the Committee of the Personal data, will be punished for one of the detention of one
(1) the year in seven (7) the years and of a fine from 500.000 francs to 10.000.000 francs or one
of these two punishments only.
Article 20:
Are implemented after authorization of the Committee of the Personal data:
1) The personal data processing concerning genetic data and search in the
field of the health;
2) The personal data processing concerning data relative to breaches,
condemnations or measures of security;
3) The personal data processing having for object an interconnection of files,
such as defined in the article 54 of the present law;

15

4) Treatments concerning a national number of identification or quite different
identifier of general reach;
5) The personal data processing containing biometric data;
6) The personal data processing having a motive for public interest in
particular in fine history, statistical or scientific.
Article 431-20 Penal code:
Whoever will have, except the cases where the treatment was authorized in the statutory
conditions on the data personal aforesaid, proceeded or made proceed to a personal data
processing including among the data which concerns the number of registration of the people in
the national directory of identification of the physical persons, will be punished for a detention
of one (1) the year in seven (7) the years and of a fine from 500.000 francs to 10.000.000 francs
or one of these two punishments only.
Article 431-25 Penal code:
Whoever will have, except the statutory cases, put or kept on support or IT report of the
personal data concerning breaches, condemnations or measures of security, will be punished for
the same punishments.
Article 431-30 Penal code:
Whoever will have collected, on the occasion of their recording, on the occasion of their
classification, on the occasion of their transmission or on the occasion of another shape of
treatment, personal data the disclosure of which would have the effect of striking a blow in view
of the interested or at the intimacy of its private life, carried, without authorization of the
interested, these data in the knowledge of a third which has no quality to receive them, will be
punished for a detention of one (1) the year in seven (7) the years and of a fine from 500.000
francs to 10.000.000 francs or one of these two punishments only.
When the disclosure planned in the previous paragraph of the present article was committed by
carelessness or carelessness, the person in charge will be punished for a detention of six (6)
month in five (5) the years and of a fine from 300.000 francs to 5.000.000 francs or one of these
two punishments only.
In the cases planned in both paragraphs of the present article, the pursuit can be exercised only
on complaint of the victim, her legal representative or his legal successors.
Article 21:
Except the cases where they must be authorized by the law and contrary to
previous articles, treatments automated of name specific information operated for
the State, for the public institution or for the local authority or for the legal entity
of private law managing a public service are decided by statutory act taken after
opinion motivated of the Committee of the Personal data.
These treatments carry on:
16

1) The safety of the State, the defense or the law and order;
2) The prevention, the search, the observation or the pursuit of the penal
breaches or the execution of the penal condemnations or the measures of
security;
3) The population census;
4) The personal data revealing, directly or indirectly, the racial, ethnic or
regional origins, the filiation, the political, philosophic or religious beliefs or
the labor-union membership of the people, or who are relative to the health
or to the sexual life of these when they are not of the article 22.3 of the
present law;
5) The treatment of salaries, pensions, taxes, taxes and other liquidations
Article 25 of the decree:
L be authorization requests, presented in application of articles 20 or 21 of the law on the
personal data, have to contain, where necessary, in appendix, the statutory act authorizing
the envisaged treatment.
Article 431-24 Penal code:
Whoever will have, except the statutory cases, put or kept on support or IT memory, without
the express consent of the interested, personal data which, directly or indirectly, reveal the
racial or ethnic origin, the political, philosophic or religious beliefs, or the labor-union
memberships, or which are relative to the health or to the sexual orientation of this one, will be
punished for a detention of one (1) the year in seven (7) the years and of a fine from 500.000
francs to 10.000.000 francs or one of these two punishments only. The capacities of the first
point of the present article are applicable to treatments not automated of personal data
the implementation of which does not limit itself to the exercise of exclusively
personal activities.

SECTION IV: COMMON CAPACITIES
Article 22:
The demands of opinion, the statements and authorization requests have to
specify:
1) The identity and the address of the person in charge of the treatment or, if
this one is not established on the national territory, those of his
representative duly appointed;
2) One or several ends of the treatment as well as the general description of its
functions;
3) The envisaged interconnections or any other forms of getting in touch with
other treatments;
4) The handled personal data, their origin and the categories of people

17

concerned by the treatment;
5) The shelf life of the handled information;
6) One or several services asked to put in work the treatment as well as the
categories of people who, because of their functions or for the needs for the
service, have directly access to the registered data;
7) The addressees authorized to receive communication of the data;
8) The function of the person or the service beside of which practices the
access right;
9) Capacities taken to assure the safety of treatments and data;
10) The indication of the appeal to a subcontractor;
11) The transfers of personal data envisaged aimed at a third country, subject to
a reciprocity.
The person in charge of a treatment already declared or authorized introduces a
new demand with the Committee of the Personal data in case of change affecting
the information mentioned in the previous paragraph. Besides, he has to inform
the Committee of the Personal data in case of abolition of the treatment.
Article 27 of the decree:
The demands of opinion, ratification of the charters of use, statements and authorization
are presented by the person in charge of the treatment or by the person having quality to
represent him.
When the person in charge of the treatment is a natural person but acting for a legal entity,
the authority of which he recovers must be mentioned.
Article 31 of the decree:
The person in charge of the treatment informs the Committee of the personal data within one
month and according to the modalities defined in the article 28 of the present decree of any
abolition of the treatment.
In case of modification, affecting the information mentioned in the article 22 of the law on the
personal data, the person in charge of the formless treatment the Committee of the within a
fortnight working personal data.
Article 431-29 Penal code:
Whoever, holding personal data on the occasion of their recording, on the occasion of their
classification, on the occasion of their transmission or on the occasion of any other shape of
treatment, will have diverted this information of their end such as defined by the legislative
arrangement, the statutory act or the decision of the Committee of the Personal data
authorizing the automated treatment, or by the preliminary statements in the implementation
of this treatment, will be punished for a detention of one (1) the year in seven (7) the years and
of a fine from 500.000 francs to 10.000.000 francs or one of these two punishments only.

18

Article 23:
The Committee of the Personal data pronounces within two (2) month as from the
reception of the asking for opinion or authorization. However, this deadline can
be once extended on decision motivated of the Committee. When the Committee
of the Personal data did not pronounce for these deadlines, the authorization is
considered favorable.
Article 29 of the decree:
The date in the opinion of reception, in the opinion of the signature of the discharge or the
electronic acknowledgement of receipt fixes the starting point of the deadline which the
Committee of the personal data has to notify its notices and authorizations in application of
the article 23 of the law on the personal data. In case continuation of this deadline, the
Committee of the personal data notifies it to the person in charge of the treatment.
Article 24:
The opinion, the statement or the authorization request can be sent to the
Committee of the Personal data by electronic way or by mail way. The Committee
of the Personal data frees a receipt of reception, if necessary by electronic way.
The Committee of the Personal data can be seized by every person, acting by itself,
by the intervention of its lawyer or by anybody else physical or moral duly
appointed.
Article 28 of the decree:
The demands of opinion, ratification of the charters of use, statement and authorization are
sent to the Committee of the personal data, either by registered letter, or by electronic way
but with acknowledgement of receipt which can be sent by the same way.
Failing that, they can be directly put down with the Committee against receipt
Article 30 of the decree:
Any decision of the Committee of the personal data is motivated and notified to the person
in charge of the treatment as well as to all other concerned people, according to the
modalities defined in the article 28 of the present decree.
The deliberations of the Committee of the personal data are published to the Gazette.
SECTION V: CONTROLS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES AND PECUNIARY
Article 25:
The members of the Committee of the Personal data as well as the sworn agents of
service have access, in the conditions planned by the article 45 and following ones
of the Code of criminal procedure, for the exercise of their missions, to places,
premises, surrounding walls, installations or establishments being of use to the
19

implementation of a personal data processing and who are business, with the
exception of the parts of these allocated to the private place of residence.
Territorially competent Public prosecutor is beforehand informed about it.
Article 15 of the decree:
In case of operation of control, territorially competent Public prosecutor is informed about it
beforehand at the latest twenty four (24) hours before the date in which the control on the spot
has to take place. This opinion specifies the date, the hour, the place and the object of the
control. The people in charge of the control have to present their orders and, where necessary,
their authorization to proceed to that controls
Article 12 of the decree:
The Committee of the personal data fixes the list of the people asked to proceed to the
controls planned by the article 25 of the law on the personal data. This list can be
reorganized at any time by the Committee of the personal data.
Article 13 of the decree:
The operation of control, that it is on site or on summons, is decided by a decision of the
Committee of the personal data which specifies:
1) The name and the address of the person in charge of the concerned treatment;
2) The name of the reporter and the other controllers in charge of the operation;
3) The object as well as the duration of the operation.
Article 26:
In case of opposition of the person in charge of places, the visit can take place only
with the authorization of the President of the Regional Court in the spring of
which are situated premises to be visited or of the judge delegated by him.
This magistrate is seized at the request of the President of the Committee of the
Personal data. He rules by a motivated prescription, according to capacities
planned to articles 820-1 - 820-9 of the code of civil procedure. The procedure is
without compulsory representation.
Article 14 of the decree:
No controller can be indicated to control with a body in the breast of which he held, during 5
years preceding the control, a direct or indirect interest performed the functions, the
professional activity or the elective mandate.
Article 16 of the decree:

20

Every control, that it is on site or on summons, has to be the object of a report which expresses
the nature, in the daytime, the hour and the place of the made controls. The report indicates the
object of the operation, the members of the Committee of the personal data having participated
in this one, the met people, where necessary, their statements, the demands formulated by the
controllers as well as the possible met difficulties.
The inventory of rooms and documents the people of which in charge of the control took copy is
annexed to the report signed by the people in charge of the control and by the person in charge
either of places, or of treatments, or by every nominee by this one.
In case of refusal or in case of absence of the person in charge of places or treatments, he is
mentioned it in the statement of insolvency established by the controllers.
When the visit was not able to take place, the report mentions the motives which prevented or
hindered his progress.
When the visit takes place with the authorization and under the control of the judge according
to the article 26 of the law over the personal data, a copy of the report of the visit is sent to him
by the President of the committee of the personal data.
Article 17 of the decree:
When the Committee of the personal data proceeds to controls, at the request of an authority of
a third country exercising skills similar to his, she informs the person in charge about it of the
treatment.
Article 18 of the decree:
The people in charge of the control can summon and hear every person susceptible to supply
them any useful information or justification for the fulfillment of their mission.
The summons, sent by registered letter or delivered personally against receipt, has to reach at
least seven days before the date of the hearing.
The summons reminds to the summoned person that it is entitled be attended of an advice of its
choice.
The refusal to answer a summons of the people in charge of the control must be mentioned on
report.
Article 19 of the decree:
When a person questioned within the framework of the controls made by the Committee of the
personal data brings into conflict the professional secrecy, he is mentioned this opposition on
the established report.
The Report has to mention legal or statutory measures governing the called professional
secrecy.

21

Article 431-31 Penal code:
Will be punished for detention from six months to two years and for a fine from 200.000 francs
to 1.000.000 francs or for one of these two punishments only, whoever will have hindered the
action of the Committee of the Personal data:
1) Either by opposing the exercise of missions entrusted to his members or to the agents
authorized in law enforcement on the personal data;
2) Either by refusing to communicate with his members or with the agents authorized in
law enforcement on the personal data, the information and the documents useful for
their mission, or by hiding the aforementioned documents or the information, or by
removing them;
3) Either by communicating information which are not in accordance with the contents of
the recordings such as he was as the demand was formulated where which do not
present these contents under a directly accessible shape
Article 27:
The members of the Committee of the Personal data and the agents mentioned in
the article 25 of the present law can ask for communication of any documents
necessary for the fulfillment of their mission, whatever is the support, and to take
it copy. Ils peuvent recueillir, sur place ou sur convocation, tout renseignement et
toute justification utiles. Ils peuvent accéder aux programmes informatiques et aux
données, demander la transcription de tout traitement dans des documents
appropriés directement utilisables pour les besoins du contrôle. Ils peuvent être
assistés par des experts choisis par la Commission des Données Personnelles.
Article 9 of Decree :
The President of the Commission of the personal data may involve one or several experts under
Article 27 of the law on personal data. Experts whose assistance is requested by the
Commission of personal data are compensated according to the provisions of the Procurement
Code. When control operations require access to personal medical data, the Commission
Personal Data means a doctor on a list provided annually by the College of Physicians of
Senegal to require the disclosure of such data. The expert report submitted to the President of
the Commission of personal data with a copy to the controller.
Article 28 :
It is prepared contradictorily minutes of verifications and surveys conducted
under the preceding articles.
Article 29 :
The Commission Personal Data may impose the following measures :
1) a warning to the controller does not comply with the obligations under
this Act.
2) an injunction to stop the alleged breach within the time fixed.
22

Article 67 of Decree :
The notice provided for by Article 29 of the Law on personal data, or specify the deficiencies
found, sets the time after which the controller is required to have been discontinued or
deficiencies found . If the controller is domiciled in a third country, the Commission shall take
into account and apply to the competent administrative authorities. This period runs from the
date of receipt, by registered letter, the controller of the notice.
Article 30 :
If the controller does not comply with the notice that was sent to him, the
Commission Personal Data may pronounce against him after an adversarial
procedure, the following sanctions :
1) temporary withdrawal of the authorization granted for a period of three
(3) months from the expiry of which the withdrawal becomes final ;
2) a monetary fine of one (1) 1000000-100 (100) million CFA Franc ;
Recovery of all penalties shall be in accordance with the laws relating to the
collection of debts owed to the State.
Article 68 of Decree :
The Commission may impose personal data in respect of any data controller has not met its
obligations, a penalty, as provided by Article 30 of the Law on personal data, except where the
processing is implemented by the State, a legal entity under public law or a legal person in
private law managing a public service.
Article 69 of Decree :
The penalty imposed by the Commission of personal data under Article 68 of this Decree shall
be reasoned and notified to the controller.
Article 70 of Decree :
When the Commission issues a personal data penalty became final before the criminal court
final decision on the same facts, it may order that the penalty imposed is added to or deducted
from the fine he utters.
Article 431-18 Penal Code:
Whoever even negligently undertaken or to a treatment that has been the extent provided in
paragraph 1 of Article 30 of the Law on personal data, shall be punished with imprisonment of
one (1) year seven (7) years and a fine of 500,000 francs to 10 million francs or one of these
penalties.

23

Article 31 :
In an emergency, when the implementation of a treatment or use of personal data
implies a violation of rights and freedoms, the Commission on Personal Data, after
an adversarial procedure, decides :
1) Interruption of implementation of treatment for a maximum of three (3)
months ;
2)
lock certain personal data processed for a maximum period of three
months ;
3) Temporary or permanent treatment contrary to the provisions of this Act
prohibition.
Article 73 of Decree :
The Commission may request personal data to the competent courts to order any necessary
security measure. In case of emergency, in accordance with Article 31 of the Law on personal
data, the Chairman of the Commission may request personal data, by way of interim order, the
order of competent jurisdiction, if any under penalty, any security measures necessary to
protect the rights and freedoms protected.
Article 74 of Decree :
If risk of sanctions other than warning, the controller is informed of the date of the meeting of
the Commission for personal data agenda of which is inscribed his case and the faculty is
offered to be heard, he or his representative. The convening of the data, performed under the
terms of Article 28 of this Decree, must be received at least fifteen days before the date
mentioned in the preceding paragraph. In case of emergency, call the controller must to have
been received no later than eight days before the date of hearing before the Board of personal
data.
Article 75 of Decree :
Any decision to sanction by the Commission of the personal data sets considerations of law or
fact on which it is based as well as ways and time limits. Publication in the Official Journal of
the penalty decision made within the period of one month from the date on which the sanction
becomes final.
Article 32 :
Sanctions and decisions taken by the Commission Personal Data
appeal before the Council of State.

are subject to

CHAPTER III: REQUIREMENTS FOR TREATMENT OF CONDITIONS OF
PERSONAL DATA
SECTION ONE : BASIC PRINCIPLES GOVERNING

THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

24

Article 33 :
The treatment of personal data is considered legitimate if the data subject gives his
consent.
However, there may be exceptions to this requirement of consent
when processing is necessary:
1) For compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject ;
2) The execution of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official
authority vested in the controller or the third party to whom the data are
disclosed ;
3) The execution of a contract to which the data subject is party or in the
execution of pre-contractual measures taken in the application;
4)
To safeguard the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
person concerned.
Article 32 of Decree :
Any processing of personal data is prohibited where the consent of the person concerned is not
obtained.
Article 34 :
The collection, recording, processing, storage and transmission of personal data
must be lawfully, fairly and not fraudulent.
Article 431-22 Penal Code:
Whoever collected personal data by fraudulent means dishonest or illegal shall be punished by
imprisonment of one (1) year seven (7) years and a fine of 500,000 francs to 10 million francs
or one of these two penalties.
Article 35 :
The data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and
cannot be further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes.
They must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for
which they are collected and further processed.
They must be kept for a period that does not exceed the period necessary for the
purposes for which it was collected or processed. Beyond the period required, the
data cannot be a conservation view that responds specifically to a processing for
historical, statistical or research under the law.

25

Article 20 of Decree :
The purpose of the proposed treatment and the nature of the data collected determine the rules
applicable to any treatment.
Article 37 of Decree :
When the responsible treatment of personal data collected for specified, explicit and legitimate
communicate this data to a third party called for further processing in particular for historical,
statistical or scientific purposes, such data are prior to their communication, anonymised or
coded by said officer or by any competent authority.
Article 38 of Decree :
The results of the treatment of personal data for historical, statistical or scientific purposes shall
not be made public in a form which permits identification of the person concerned, unless:
1)
2)

The person concerned has given express consent ;
Publication of non-anonymous data and unencrypted personal information is
limited to data which are manifestly made public by the data subject.
Article 39 of the Decree :

Commission of personal data is competent to decide on the historical, statistical or scientific
nature of personal data.
Article 40 of the Decree :
Articles 37 and 38 of this Decree shall not apply to any processing of data concerning public
security, defense, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the security of the State.
Article 43 Decree :
Transfer, provided within a group of companies or address multiple recipients for the same
categories of data and the same purpose, may be a joint statement.
Article 431-27 Penal Code:
Whoever kept of personal data beyond the time necessary character under Article 35 of the Law
on personal data, unless this is done to conservation of historical, statistical or scientific
purposes as provided by law, shall be punished by imprisonment of one (1) year seven (7) years
and a fine of 500,000 francs to 10 million francs or one of these penalties.
Article 431-28 Penal Code:
Whoever, except in cases provided by law, treaty for purposes other than for historical,
statistical or scientific use of personal data stored beyond the period required under Article 35
of the Law on Personal Data Staff will be punished with the same penalties.

26

Article 36:
The data must be accurate and, where necessary, updated. All reasonable
measures should be taken to ensure that inaccurate or incomplete, having regard
to the purposes for which they are collected and further processed, are erased or
rectified.
Article 37:
The principle of transparency requires mandatory information from the controller
on the personal data.
Article 38 :
The personal data shall be treated as confidential and shall be protected in
accordance with Article 71 of this law, in particular where the processing involves
the transmission of data over a network.
Article 39:
When processing is implemented on behalf of the controller, it must choose a
processor providing sufficient guarantees. It is the responsibility of the treatment
as well as sub-contractor to ensure compliance with the security measures defined
by section 71 of this Act.
Treatment conducted on behalf of the controller must be governed by a contract or
legal act documented binding the processor to the controller and stipulating in
particular that the subcontractor acts only on the single instruction of the
controller and that the obligations under this section shall also be borne by the
latter.
Article 64 of Decree :
A data controller can process personal data by a subcontractor character when said data
protection is guaranteed. However, it remains responsible and must ensure that the data are
processed in accordance with the provisions in force, particularly with respect to their use and
disclosure.
SECTION

II:

SPECIFIC PRINCIPLES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF

PERSONAL DATA

Article 40:
It is forbidden to any collection and treatment revealing racial, ethnic or regional
affiliation, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union
membership, sex life, genetic or more data generally those relating to the health of
the person concerned.

27

Article 41 :
The prohibition laid down in the preceding article shall not apply to the following
types of treatments when:
1)
Processing personal data relates to data which are manifestly made
public by the data subject;
2)
The data subject has given his consent in writing, regardless of the
medium, such treatment and in accordance with the legislation in force;
3) The treatment of personal data is necessary to protect the vital interests of
the data subject or of another person where the data subject is physically or
legally incapable of giving consent ;
4) Processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal
claims. However, genetic data may only be processed to verify the existence
of a genetic link under the administration of evidence in court, for the
identification of a person, the prevention or suppression of an offense
specific criminal ;
5) Judicial proceedings or a criminal investigation is open;
6) The treatment of personal data is necessary for reasons of public interest,
particularly for historical, statistical or scientific ;
7) The processing is necessary for the execution of a contract to which the
data subject is party or performance to take steps at the request of the
person concerned during the initiation ;
8)
The processing is necessary for compliance with a legal or regulatory
obligation to which the controller is subject ;
9) The processing is necessary for the performance of a task in the public
interest or is made by a public authority or assigned by a public authority
to the controller or a third party to whom the data are disclosed ;
10) Processing is carried out within the framework of the legitimate activities
of a foundation, association or any other non-profit organization with a
political, philosophical, religious, fraternal or union. However, treatment
must relate only to members of the body or to persons who have regular
contact with her connection with its purposes and that the data are not
disclosed to third parties without the consent of the persons concerned.
Article 42:
The processing of data relating to offenses, criminal convictions or security
measures may be implemented by :
1)
Courts, public authorities and corporations managing a public service,
acting within their legal powers ;
2)
Judicial officers for the strict requirements of carrying out the tasks
entrusted to them by law.

28

Article 43 :
Processing of personal data for the purposes of health character is legitimate
only when:
1) The person concerned has given his consent;
2) It relates to data which are manifestly made public by the data subject ;
3) Necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another
person where it is physically or legally incapable of giving his consent;
4) Necessary for the achievement of a goal set by or under the law ;
5) Necessary for the promotion and protection of public health, including
screening ;
6) It is necessary for the prevention of a real danger or the suppression of a
specific criminal offense ;
7) It is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims ;
8) It is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine, medical diagnosis,
the provision of care or treatment or the person concerned, or his parent or
when the health care act in the interests of the person concerned. The data
are processed under the supervision of a professional health care that is
subject to professional secrecy.
Article 33 of Decree :
The file requests for review or approval of treatments personal data on genetic data and
research in the medical field includes:
1)

The identity and address of the controller and the person responsible for the
research, their titles, experience and duties, the categories of persons who will be
called to implement the treatment and those who have access to data collected;

2)

The research protocol or relevant elements, including specifying the objective of
the research, the categories of persons concerned, the method of observation or
investigation chosen, the origin and nature of personal data collected and
justification the use thereof, the duration and modalities of organization of
research, the method of analysis;

3)

appropriate, opinions previously rendered by scientific bodies or ethical ;

4)

characteristics of the proposed treatment;

5)

where appropriate, scientific and technical justification of any request for
waiver of the requirement of encoding data for the identification of stakeholders
and the justification of any request for exemption from the prohibition of said
data storage beyond the time required to search.

Any modification of these elements is brought to the attention of the Commission of
personal data.

29

Article 34 of Decree :
The starting point of the period fixed by this provision was postponed to the date of receipt of
additional information requested by the Commission of personal data when the file is
incomplete.
Article 431-26 Penal Code:
When processing personal data have to end research in the field of health, shall be punished
with the same penalties, anyone who has completed a treatment:
1)

without first individually informed persons on whose behalf the personal data is
collected or transferred their right of access, rectification and opposition of the nature of
the transmitted data and the recipients thereof as well as arrangements for their
treatment, preservation and protection;

2)

despite the opposition of the person concerned, or when required by law, in the absence
of informed and express consent of the person, or in the case of a deceased person,
despite the refusal expressed by it in his lifetime.

Article 44 :
The personal data relating to health are collected from the person concerned. They
can be collected from other sources only if the collection is necessary for the
processing or that the person concerned is not able to provide the data itself.
Article 35 Decree :
Unless waived by the Commission of the personal data, the collection of information under
Article 44 of the Law on personal data takes place under the following conditions:
1)

When personal data are collected directly from people interested in writing
questionnaire thereof or if the covering letter is marked read this information;

2)

When personal data are collected orally, the person who conducts the survey give
or previously sent to interested persons a document containing such information;

3)

Where the personal data were originally collected for a purpose other than the
proposed treatment, the health professional responsible for its therapeutic inform the
person concerned in writing.

Article 45:
The treatment of personal data carried out for purposes of journalism, research or
artistic or literary expression is recognized when it is implemented solely for
literary and artistic expression or exercise, on a professional basis, of activity
journalist or researcher, in compliance with the ethical rules of the profession s s.
Article 46 :
The provisions of this Act shall not preclude the application of the laws relating to
the press or by broadcasting and the Penal Code which stipulate the conditions for

30

exercising the right of reply and prevent, hinder, repair and, appropriate,
penalizing offenses against privacy and reputation of individuals.
Article 47:
It is forbidden to carry out direct marketing using all means of communication
using any form whatsoever, the personal data of an individual who has not
expressed its consent to receive such surveys.
Article 48 :
No court decision involving assessment the behavior of a person cannot be based
on automated processing of personal data intended to evaluate certain aspects of
his personality.
No decision which produces legal effects in respect of a person may be taken
based solely on automated processing of personal data for defining the profile of
the person concerned or to evaluate certain aspects of his personality.
Are not regarded as taken based solely on automated processing of personal data,
the decisions taken in the context of the conclusion or performance of a contract
and for which the person concerned has been able submit its comments or those
satisfying the demands of the person concerned.
Article 49 :
The data controller cannot transfer personal data to a third country if the state
provides an adequate level of protection of privacy, freedom and fundamental
rights of individuals with regard to the treatment of these data are or may be
subject.
Before any transfer of personal data to a third country, the controller must first
inform the Commission of Personal Data.
Before any processing of personal data from abroad, the Commission Personal
Data must first verify that the controller provides an adequate level of protection
of privacy, freedom and fundamental rights of individuals with regard to the
treatment under this Act.
The adequacy of the level of protection provided by a controller is assessed
according including security measures which are applied thereto as provided in
this Act, the characteristics of the treatment, such as its purpose, duration and the
nature, origin and destination of the processed data.

31

Article 42 Decree :
Pursuant to Article 49 of the Law on personal data, the controller enters in the manner set out
in Article 28 of this Decree, the Commission personal data before the first data transfer to a
third countries. Statement of the controller must specify :
1)

The name and address of the person submitting the data;

2)

The name and address of the recipient of the data;

3)

The name and the description of the file;

4)

Categories of personal data transferred;

5)

The people involved and their approximate number;

6)

The purpose of data processing carried out by the recipient;

7)

Mode and frequency of planned shipments;

8)

The date of the first transfer.

Any change in the information reported by the controller must be declared to the
Commission of personal data within fifteen working days.
Article 50:
The data controller may transfer personal data to a third country does not meet
the conditions laid down in Article previous spot if the transfer is not massive
and that the person to whom the data relate has expressly agreed to transfer or if
the transfer is necessary for one of the following conditions :
1) To safeguard the life of this person ;
2) to safeguard the public interest;
3) Compliance obligations for ensuring the establishment, exercise or defense
of legal claims;
4)
Execution of a contract between the data controller and the person
concerned, or to take steps at the request of the latter.
Article 51:
The Commission Personal Data may authorize, on the basis of a reasoned request,
a transfer or a set of transfers of data to third countries which do not ensure an
adequate level of protection, this when the controller provides adequate with
respect to the protection of privacy, freedom and fundamental rights of the
persons concerned and the exercise of the corresponding rights guarantees.
Article 44 Decree :
Commission of personal data establishes a list of states that have legislation on personal data
equivalent and makes it available to anyone who wishes to transfer personal data to third
countries. This publication does not relieve the controller of any of its responsibilities

32

Article 52:
Any person acting under the authority of the controller or in the subcontractor and
the subcontractor himself, and who has access to personal data must not process
them except on instructions from the controller.
SECTION III : INTERCONNECTION OF FILES CONTAINING PERSONAL DATA
Article 53 :
The interconnection of files referred to in section 22.3 of this Act within one or
more legal entities managing a public service and whose aims correspond to
different public interests should be subject to authorization by the Commission
Personal Data.
It is the same for treatments implemented by the State for the purpose of making
available to users of the administration one or more remote services within the
framework of e-government.
The interconnection of files within individuals whose main purposes are different
is also subject to Commission approval of Personal Data.
Article 54 :
The interconnection of files must achieve legal or statutory objectives of legitimate
interest to those responsible for treatment. It cannot lead to discrimination or
reduction of rights, freedoms and guarantees for the persons concerned or be
accompanied by appropriate security measures and shall take into account the
principle of relevance of data subject to interconnection.
Article 55 :
The application for leave to interconnection under section 22.3 of this Act includes
any information :
1) The nature of the personal data on interconnection ;
2) The purpose for which interconnection is considered necessary ;
3) The period for which interconnection is permitted ;
4) Where applicable, the conditions and terms under the more effective
protection of rights and freedoms, including the right to privacy of the
persons concerned or third parties.
Article 56 :
The authorization may be renewed after a request from the controllers.
Article 57 :
The applications for leave to interconnection and interconnection authorizations
are included in the repertoire of treatments mentioned in Article 16-4 of this Act.

33

CHAPTER IV
: RIGHTS GRANTED TO THE PERSON WHOSE DATA
SUBJECT TO TREATMENT
FIRST SECTION: RIGHT TO INFORMATION
Article 58:
When personal data are collected directly from the data subject, the controller
must provide it, at the latest, during the collection and whatever means and media
used the following information:
1) The identity of the controller and, where appropriate, his representative;
2)
The purpose or purposes of the processing for which the data are
intended;
3) Categories of data concerned;
4) Or the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data might be
disclosed;
5) Knowing if the answer to the questions are obligatory or voluntary, as well
as the possible consequences of failure to reply ;
6) Being able to ask not to be included in the file ;
7) The existence of a right of access to data relating to and correction of data ;
8) The duration of data retention ;
9) If necessary, transfer personal data envisaged to abroad.
Article 36 Decree :
Those admitted in institutions or centers that are engaged in the prevention, diagnosis and
treatment giving rise to the transmission of personal data to a treatment whose end medical
research are aware of the particulars prescribed by Articles 58 and following of the law on
personal data by submitting a document or by any other appropriate means. However, this
information may not be issued if, for legitimate that the doctor appreciates reasons, the patient
is left in ignorance of a serious diagnosis or prognosis. Exemptions from the obligation to
inform individuals of the use of their data for research purposes Medical mentioned in the
application for authorization to the Commission of personal data.
Article 45 of Decree :
The information to be provided by the controller, in accordance with Article 58 of the Law on
personal data can be delivered by any means, including by:
1)

E-mail or on paper;

2)

Display or electronic form;

3)

Announcement in a suitable medium;

4)

Or during a personal interview.

34

Article 46 of Decree :
If the data are collected by questionnaire, the following information must be listed on the
questionnaire:
1)

The identity of the controller, or that of his representative;

2)

The aim pursued by the treatment;

3)

The compulsory or optional nature of the responses;

4)

Access, opposition, rectification and deletion rights.
Article 47 of Decree :

When the data were originally collected for another purpose, the controller shall inform the
person concerned, unless it is already informed. When the controller is unable to do so, he must
prove to the Commission of personal data.
Article 59 :
When personal data are not collected from the data subject, the information
referred to in Article 58 of this Act shall be transmitted to that person at the time of
data recording or, if their communication is envisaged, the later during the first
communication.
Article 60:
The provisions of section 58 of this Act shall not apply:
1) the data collected and used during treatment implemented on behalf of
the State and the security interests of the State, defense, public safety or the
object the enforcement of criminal convictions or security measures , to the
extent that such limitation is necessary to meet the purposes of the
processing;
2)
When the processing is necessary for the prevention, investigation,
detection and prosecution of any offense;
3)
When treatment is necessary to take into account an important economic
or financial interest of the State, including in, monetary budget areas,
customs and taxation.
Article 61 :
Anyone using electronic communications networks must be informed clearly and
comprehensively by the controller or his representative :
1)
The purpose of any action to access, by electronic transmission, the
information stored in the terminal equipment connection, or to register, in
the same way, information in the terminal equipment connection ;
2) Means at its disposal to oppose it.

35

These provisions do not apply if access to the information stored in the terminal
equipment of the user or the inclusion of information in the user equipment :
1) Or has the exclusive purpose of enabling or facilitating electronic
communication ;
2) Is strictly necessary for the provision of a service online communication at
the express request of the user.
SECTION II : RIGHT OF ACCESS
Article 62 :
Any person proving his identity has the right to request, in writing, regardless of
the medium, the data controller of personal data, to provide:
1) Information to know and challenge treatment;
2) Confirmation that personal data relating to him are or are not subject to
this treatment;
3) Communication in an accessible form of personal data concerning him as
well as any available information as to the origin thereof;
4)
Information about the purposes of the processing, the categories of
personal data processed and the recipients or categories of recipients to
whom the data are disclosed ;
5) Where applicable, information on transfers of personal data under
consideration to a third country.
Article 48 of Decree :
Everyone has the right to be informed of the data concerning it, by sending a written request
for access to information, signed and dated, regardless of the support request:
1)

Either the controller or his representative in Senegal or any of its agents or
employees;

2)

Or subcontractor processing of personal data, which shall communicate the
appropriate character, one of the persons mentioned in paragraph 1 of this
Article.

However, any improper application will be deemed inadmissible, either by the controller or
by the Commission of personal data, in accordance with Article 66 of the law on personal
data.
Article 49 of Decree :
The application referred to in Article 48 of this Decree shall contain : Name, surname, date of
birth, nationality of the person concerned, and a photocopy of the identity card, passport or
document in lieu thereof. The access to information request also contains and to the extent that
the applicant has this information:

36

1)
2)

The circumstances or cause of making knowledge of disputed data and
corrections may require ;
The designation of the authority or department concerned.

The Commission may request personal information to the person concerned any additional
information it considers useful.
Article 50 of Decree :
Failing elements referred to in Article 49 of this Decree, the demand for access to information
may be considered inadmissible. The response of the controller of the data must be made in
writing.
Article 51 Decree :
If multiple controllers data jointly manage one or multiple files, the right of access to
information can be exercised at each of them, unless one of them is considered responsible for all
treatments. If the person sought is not authorized to disclose the information requested, it shall
transmit the request to the appropriate person as soon as possible.
Article 63:
A copy of the personal data concerning him is issued to the person concerned at
his request. The controller can make the issue of such copy to the payment of a
sum not exceeding the cost of reproduction.
If risk of concealment or disappearance of personal data, the person concerned
may inform the Commission of Personal Data taking any measure to avoid such
concealment or disappearance.
Article 64:
Any person who in the exercise of his right of access has serious reasons to assume
that the data have been communicated are not consistent with the data processed
may inform the Commission of Personal Data which makes the necessary checks.
Article 65 :
The right to access a patient is exercised by the patient himself or through a
physician designated. In case of death of the patient, the spouse not legally
separated and children, in the case of a minor, his parents may exercise through a
doctor appointed by them, the right of access.
Article 66 :
The controller may oppose grossly unfair demands, including their number,
repetitive or systematic. In case of dispute, the burden of proof of patent
unreasonableness applications is the responsibility of the treatment to which they
are addressed.

37

Article 67 :
Notwithstanding Articles 62 and following of this law, when treatment interested
in security, defense or public security, the right of access is exercised under the
following conditions :
1)
The request is sent to the Commission on Personal Data who shall
appoint one of its members who belong or have belonged to the State
Council or the Supreme Court to conduct the necessary investigations. It
may be another agent of the Commission on Personal Data attends. It is
notified that the applicant has carried out the checks ;
2) When the Commission Personal Data in accordance with the controller
finds, that the communication data contained therein do not question its
aims, the state security, defense or public safety, these data can be
communicated to the applicant ;
3) When treatment is likely to include information the disclosure of which
would not put into question the purpose assigned to it, the regulatory act
establishing the file may provide that such information may be
communicated to the applicant by the file handler directly entered.
Article 41 of Decree :
Pursuant to Article 67 of the Law on personal data, when the controller opposes the
communication to the applicant of all or part of the information concerning, rectification or
deletion of such information, the Commission Personal data shall inform the person concerned
of the audits. The Commission mentions this opposition personal data in its annual report.
Article 53 of Decree :
Equitable participation fee in favor of the Commission of personal data may exceptionally be
requested when:
1)

Requested information has already been communicated to the applicant within six
months preceding the application, and that it can justify a legitimate interest, such
as the modification of said data;

2) The submission of information causes a considerable amount of work for the
Commission of personal data.
The detailed rules for the fee shall be determined by decision of the Commission of personal
data.
Article 54 Decree :
Pursuant to Article 65 of the Law on personal data, viewing data of a deceased person is
granted when the applicant has established an interest in the consultation and no overriding
interest of relatives of the died or third parties otherwise. Interest is established in case of close
relationship or marriage with the deceased.

38

Article 55 of the Decree :
At the conclusion of any audit, the Commission personal data can rectify, erase the personal
data already processed or insert other. It can also prohibit disclosure of personal data or
recommendations it deems necessary.
Article 56 of Decree :
Minutes prepared by the Commission of personal data shall specify the period after which the
controller is required to have been discontinued or deficiencies found. At the expiration of this
period, the controller concerned shall notify in writing to the said Commission of the action
taken in the decisions that were taken.
Article 57 of Decree :
Commission of personal data has a period of four months from the date of notification to decide
on any request for access to information. In case of request for additional information to the
applicant, the period defined in this Article shall run from the date of receipt by the
Commission of such personal data such information. When the Commission personal data seek
advice from an authority exercising similar powers to his own in a third country, the same
period runs from the receipt by said Commission the information requested.
SECTION III : RIGHT OPPOSITION
Article 68:
Any individual has the right to oppose, for legitimate reasons that the personal
data relating to him being processed.
She has the right, on the one hand, to be informed before personal data are
concerning for the first time to third parties or used on behalf of third parties for
exploration and, secondly, to be expressly offered the right to object free of charge
to such disclosures or uses.
The provisions of the first paragraph of this Article shall not apply if the treatment
meets a legal requirement.
Article 58 of Decree :
When personal data are collected by writing to the person concerned, the controller asks it on
the document by which it collects data, if it wishes to exercise the right of objection under
Article 68 of the law on personal data.
Article 59 of Decree :
When personal data is collected from the person other than in writing, the controller asks it if it
wishes to exercise the right to object. In this case, the application must be achieved no later than

39

one month after the collection of these data by any technical means, which keeps evidence that
the person concerned has had the opportunity to exercise his right to object. In the absence of
communication of this document, the right of opposition applies right.
Article 60 of Decree :
When personal data are not obtained from the data subject, the controller asked, regardless of
the medium, whether it wishes to exercise the right of opposition.
Article 61 of Decree :
When personal data are intended to be used by the controller for the purposes of prospecting,
including commercial, the right of opposition may be exercised without any justification.
Article 431-23 Penal Code:
Whoever undertaken or to a processing personal data relating to an individual despite the
opposition of the person in accordance with Article 68 of the Law on personal data, where
treatment meets marketing purposes including commercial, or where the opposition is based on
legitimate grounds, shall be punished by imprisonment of one (1) year seven (7) years and a
fine of 500,000 francs to 10 million francs or the one of these two penalties.
SECTION IV : RIGHT OF RECTIFICATION AND DELETION
Article 69 : Any person proving his identity may require the data controller that
are, as appropriate, rectified, completed, updated, deleted or locked the personal
data relating to him which is inaccurate, incomplete, equivocal, or whose
collection, use, disclosure or storage is prohibited.
When he so requests in writing, regardless of the medium, the controller must
justify, without cost to the applicant, it has made the operations required under
the preceding paragraph within a period of one (1) month after the registration of
the request.
In case of dispute, the burden of proof is on the controller to which exercise of the
right of access.
If data has been transferred to another party, the controller must perform the
necessary procedures to notify him of the transactions it conducted in accordance
with the first paragraph.
Article 52 Decree :
Requests for rectification, cancellation or prohibition of personal data or communication of an
opposition based on the provisions of the law on personal data, shall be submitted to the same

40

persons mentioned in Article 48 of this Decree. Applications under this section shall be
addressed to the persons concerned in accordance with Article 28 of this Decree.
Article 62 of Decree :
When a person makes an application to rectify or delete data relating to the controller or the
Commission of personal data must notify in writing the arrangements.
CHAPTER V: OBLIGATIONS OF RESPONSIBLE FOR TREATMENT OF
PERSONAL DATA
FIRST SECTION: DUTY OF CONFIDENTIALITY
Article 70 :
The treatment of personal data is confidential. It is performed only by persons
acting under the authority of the controller and only on his instructions.
To carry out the treatment, the manager must choose people with, in terms of
preserving the confidentiality of data, all warranties as technical and legal
knowledge of personal integrity. E OMMITMENT written persons required to
process such data to comply with this Act shall be signed.
The contract between the subcontractor to the controller includes an indication of
the obligations of the subcontract for the protection of the security and
confidentiality of data and provides that the subcontractor can act only on
instructions from treatment.
Article 63 of Decree :
The controller of personal data ensures the confidentiality, availability and accuracy of data
collected in order to guarantee the appropriate protection of data processed
SECTION II: SAFETY REQUIREMENT
Article 71:
The controller shall take all necessary precautions regarding the nature of the data
and, in particular, to prevent them from being distorted, damaged, or that
unauthorized parties have access. It shall, in particular, any measure to:
1) Ensure that the use of an automated data processing, authorized persons
have access only to personal data under their jurisdiction;
2) Guarantee that can be verified and ascertained the identity of the third
parties to whom personal data may be transmitted;

41

3)

guarantee that can be checked and recorded a posteriori identity of
persons having access to the information system and what data has been
read or entered into the system, when and by whom ;
4)
prevent any unauthorized person from having access to premises and
equipment used for data processing;
5)
Prevent data media from being read, copied, modified, destroyed or
removed by unauthorized persons;
6) Prevent the unauthorized use of any data in the information system and
introduction unauthorized inspection, modification or deletion of stored
data;
7)
Prevent processing systems data can be used by unauthorized persons
using data communication equipment people;
8) Prevent, in the data communication and transport of data media, the data
can be read, copied, modified or deleted in an unauthorized manner;
9) Safeguard data by creating backup copies of security ;
10) Cool and if necessary convert data for long-term storage.
Article 65 of Decree :
The controller of personal data takes security measures to protect computer systems and
networks against the risks:
1)

Accidental or unauthorized use of personal data destruction;

2)

Technical errors ;

3)

Forgery, theft or misuse of personal data.
Article 431-21 Penal Code:

Whoever undertaken or to a processing personal data without implementing the measures
prescribed in article 71 of the Law on personal data above, shall be punished by imprisonment
of one (1) year seven (7) years and a fine of 500,000 francs to 10 million francs or one of these
penalties.
SECTION III: KEEPING REQUIREMENTS
Article 72:
The personal data may not be retained beyond the time necessary in order to be
processed for historical, statistical or scientific purposes.
Article 66 of Decree :
At the expiration of the period of retention provided for treatment relating to personal data,
said data must be destroyed, erased, deleted or archived as provided by the laws in force
concerning archiving of administrative documents.

42

Article 73 :
Without the express consent of the data subject, the personal data collected by
providers of certification services to the needs of the rescue and conservation
certificates related to electronic signatures must be directly from the person
concerned and can be processed only for the purposes for which they were
collected.
SECTION IV OBLIGATION TO SUSTAINABILITY
Article 74 :
The controller shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that personal data
processed can be exploited regardless of the support used. It should particularly
ensure that the evolution of technology will not be an obstacle to exploitation.
CHAPTER VI

: CRIMINAL PROVISIONS

Article 75 :
Infringements of the provisions of this Act are defined and punishable under the
Penal Code and the Law on cybercrime.
CHAPTER VII

TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 76:
As a transitional measure, the data processing made on behalf of the State, a
public institution, a local authority or a legal person in private law and managing
a public already created services are not subject that a declaration to the
Commission Personal Data in accordance with Article 18 of this Act.
Article 77:
As of the date of entry into force of this Act, all data processing shall meet the
requirements thereof, within the time hereinafter :
1) two (2) years for data processing made on behalf of the State, a public
institution, a local authority or a legal person in private law managing a
public service
2) one (1) year for the treatment of personal data carried out on behalf of
persons other than those subject to the provisions of the preceding
paragraph.
Article 78 :
Due to the specificity of the material, the application of this Act to the law
establishing the national identity card scanned Senegalese measures will be a
special regulation.

43

The modalities of application of this Act shall be made by decree.

Made in Dakar, January 25, 2008

Abdoulaye WADE
By the President of the Republic
Prime Minister
Sheikh Hadjibou SOUMARE

44


