JUDGMENTS

LEGISLATION

FINDING AIDS

COMMENTARY

FROM THE COURTS

Home » Data Protection Act, 2002

ABOUT SEYLII

EMAIL SEYLII

More like this

Data Protection Act, 2002

National Bureau of Statistics
Act, 2010

Number of Act:
9
Date of commencement:
01 August 2002
In force:
No

Broadcasting and
Telecommunication Act

EDITORS' NOTE: The digital versions of legislation accessible through SeyLII are UNOFFICIAL and provided
solely in the interests of increasing access to legal information. Their currency and accuracy cannot be
warranted. Official versions of Seychelles legislation can only be obtained in hard copy from the AttorneyGeneral’s Chambers, Department of Legal Affairs.

CONSOLIDATED TO 31 DECEMBER 2015
DATA PROTECTION ACT
(NOT YET IN FORCE)
Act 9 of 2003
_______________________________
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
DATA PROTECTION ACT
PART I – PRELIMINARY
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Short title
Interpretation
Data protection principles
Data Protection Commissioner
Other officers
Receipts and expenses
Audit of accounts

PART II – REGULATION OF DATA USERS ANDCOMPUTER BUREAUX
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Registration of data users and computer bureaux
Prohibition of unregistered holding of personal data
Application for registration and amendment
Acceptance and refusal of applications
Duration and renewal of registration
Inspection etc. of registered particulars
Enforcement notice
De-registration notice
Transfer prohibition notice
Right of appeal
Determination of appeals
Unauthorised disclosure by computer bureaux
Power of entry and inspection
Execution of warrants
Matters exempt from inspection and seizure
Return of warrants
Offences
Disclosure of information
Prosecution and penalties
Liability of directors etc.

PART III – RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Right of access to personal data
Compensation for inaccuracy
Compensation for loss or unauthorised disclosure
Rectification and erasure
No access pending court determination

PART IV – EXEMPTIONS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Preliminary
National security
Crime and taxation
Health and social work
Regulation of financial services etc.
Appointments and professional privilege
Payrolls and accounts
Domestic or other limited purposes
Other exemptions
Examination marks

PART V – GENERAL
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

General duties of the Commissioner
Application to Public Authorities
Data held and services provided outside Seychelles
Regulations and orders
Transitional provisions

SCHEDULE (Section 3): DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES
PART I – THE PRINCIPLES
PART II - INTERPRETATION
NO SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION
_______________________________
PART I – PRELIMINARY
Short title
1.
This Act may be cited as the Data Protection Act, 2002 and shall come into operation on such date as the
Minister may by notice in the Gazette appoint.
Note: This Act was not yet in force as at 31 December 2015.
Interpretation
2.
(1) The following provisions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have effect for the interpretation
of this Act.
(2) “Business” includes a trade or profession.
(3) “Commissioner” means the Data Protection Commissioner appointed under section 4.
(4) “Court” means the Supreme Court.
(5) “Data” means information recorded in a form in which it can be processed by equipment operating
automatically in response to instructions given for that purpose.
(6) “Data equipment” means equipment for the automatic processing of data or for recording information so
that it can be automatically processed.
(7) “Personal data” means, data consisting of information which relates to a living individual who can be
identified from that information (or from that and other information in the possession of the data user), including
any expression of opinion about the individual but not any indication of the intentions of the data user in respect
of that individual.
(8) “Data material” means any document or other material used in connection with data equipment.
(9) “Data subject” means an individual who is the subject of personal data.
(10) “Data user” means a person who holds data, and a person “holds” data if —
(a) the data form part of a collection of data processed or intended to be processed by or on behalf of that
person as mentioned in subsection (5);
(b) that person (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons) controls the contents and use of the
data comprised in the collection, and
(c) the data are in the form in which they have been or are intended to be processed as mentioned in paragraph
(a) or (though not for the time being in that form) in a form into which they have been converted after being so
processed and with a view to being further so processed on a subsequent occasion.
(11) A person carries on a “computer bureau” if he provides other persons with services in respect of data, and a
person provides such services if —
(a) as agent for other persons he causes data held by them to be processed as mentioned in subsection (5) or
(b) he allows other persons the use of equipment in his possession for the processing as mentioned in that
subsection of data held by them.
(12) “De-registration notice” means a notice under section 15.
(13) “Prescribed” means prescribed by regulations under section 46.
(14) “Processing”, in relation to data, means amending, augmenting, deleting or re-arranging the data or
extracting the information constituting the data and, in the case of personal data, means performing any of
those operations by reference to the data subject:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply to any operation performed only for the purpose of preparing the
text of documents.
(15) “Disclosing”, in relation to data, includes disclosing information extracted from the data and where the
identification of the individual who is the subject of personal data depends partly on the information
constituting the data and partly on other information in the possession of the data user, the data shall not be
regarded as disclosed or transferred unless the other information is also disclosed or transferred.
(16) “Enactment” includes an enactment subsequent to this Act.
(17) “Enforcement notice” means a notice under section 14.
(18) “Register” means the register maintained under section 8.
(19) “Transfer prohibition notice” means a notice under section 16.
Data protection principles
3.
(1) Subject to subsection (3), references in this Act to the data protection principles are to the principles
set out in Part I of the Schedule and those principles shall be interpreted in accordance with Part II of the
Schedule.
(2) The first seven principles apply to personal data held by data users and the eighth applies both to such data
and to personal data in respect of which services are provided by persons carrying on computer bureaux.
(3) The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, modify or supplement those principles for the purpose
of providing additional safeguards in relation to personal data consisting of information as to —
(a) the racial origin of the data subject;
(b) his political opinions or religious or other beliefs;
(c) his physical or mental health or his sexual life ; or
(d) his criminal convictions,
and references in this Act to the data protection principles include, except where the context otherwise
requires, references to any modified or additional principle having effect by virtue of an Order under this
subsection.
(4) An Order under subsection (3) may modify a principle either by modifying the principle itself or by modifying
its interpretation; and where an Order under that subsection modifies a principle or provides for an additional
principle it may contain provisions for the interpretation of the modified or additional principle.
(5) An Order under subsection (3) modifying the third data protection principle may, to such extent as the
Minister thinks appropriate, exclude or modify in relation to that principle any exemption from the nondisclosure provisions contained in Part IV; and the exemptions from those provisions shall accordingly have
effect subject to any Order made by virtue of this subsection.
(6) An Order under subsection (3) may make different provisions in relation to data consisting of information of
different descriptions.
Data Protection Commissioner
4.

(1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be an officer known as the Data Protection Commissioner.

(2) The Commissioner shall be appointed by the President.
(3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the Commissioner shall hold office for a term of 5 years, but on expiry of
such term shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(4) The Commissioner may at any time resign his office by writing addressed to the President.
(5) The Commissioner may be removed from office by the President.
Other officers
5.
(1) The President shall cause such arrangements to be made as the President considers appropriate for
the provision of officers to assist the Commissioner in the exercise of his functions under this Act.
(2) Any function of the Commissioner under this Act may, to the extent authorised by him, be performed by any
such officer.
Receipts and expenses
6.
(1) All fees and other sums received by the Commissioner in the exercise of his functions under this Act
shall be paid by him into the Consolidated Fund.
(2) There shall be paid to the Commissioner out of moneys provided by an Appropriation Act such sum as may
be necessary towards his expenses.
Audit of accounts
7.

The accounts of the Commissioner shall be audited in accordance with article 158 of the Constitution.

PART II – REGULATION OF DATA USERS ANDCOMPUTER BUREAUX
Registration of data users and computer bureaux
8.
(1) The Commissioner shall maintain a register of data users who hold, and of persons carrying on
computer bureaux who provide services in respect of, personal data and shall make an entry in the register in
pursuance of each application for registration accepted by the Commissioner under this Part.
(2) Each entry shall state whether it is in respect of —
(a) a data user;
(b) a person carrying on a computer bureau, or
(c) a data user who also carries on such a bureau.
(3) Subject to this section, an entry in respect of a data user shall consist of the following particulars —
(a) the name and address of the data user;
(b) a description of the personal data to be held by him and of the purpose or purposes for which the data are
to be held or used;
(c) a description of every source from which he intends
or may wish to obtain the data or the information to be contained in the data;
(d) a description of every person to whom he intends or
may wish to disclose the data (otherwise than in a case mentioned in section 41(5)(a), (b) or (c));
(e) the name of every country outside Seychelles to which he intends or may wish directly or indirectly to
transfer the data; and
(f) one or more addresses for the receipt of requests from data subjects for access to the data.
(4) Subject to this section, an entry in respect of a person carrying on a computer bureau shall consist of that
person's name and address.
(5) Subject to this section, an entry in respect of a data user who also carries on a computer bureau shall consist
of his name and address and, as respects the personal data to be held by him, the particulars specified in
subsection (3)(b) to (f).
(6) In the case of a registered company, the address referred to in subsections (3)(a), (4) and (5) is that of its
registered office, and the particulars to be included in the entry shall include the company's number in the
register of companies.
(7) In the case of a person (other than a registered company) carrying on a business the address referred to in
subsections (3)(a), (4) and (5) is that of his principal place of business.
(8) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette vary the particulars to be included in entries made in the
register.
Prohibition of unregistered holding of personal data
9.
(1) A person shall not hold personal data unless an entry in respect of that person as a data user, or as a
data user who also carries on a computer bureau, is for the time being contained in the register.
(2) A person in respect of whom such an entry is contained in the register shall not —
(a) hold personal data of any description other than that specified in the entry;
(b) hold any such data, or use any such data held by him, for any purpose other than the purpose or purposes
described in the entry;
(c) obtain such data, or information to be contained in such data, to be held by him from any source which is not
described in the entry;
(d) disclose such data held by him to any person who is not described in the entry; or
(e) directly or indirectly transfer such data held by him
to any country outside Seychelles other than a country named in the entry.
(3) A servant or agent of a person to whom subsection (2) applies shall, as respects personal data held by that
person, be subject to the same restrictions on the use, disclosure or transfer of the data as those to which that
person is subject under subsection (2)(b), (d) and (e) and as respects personal data to be held by that person, to
the same restrictions as those to which he is subject under subsection (2)(c).
(4) A person shall not, in carrying on a computer bureau, provide services in respect of personal data unless an
entry in respect of that person as a person carrying on such a bureau is for the time being contained in the
register.
(5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or knowingly or recklessly contravenes any of the other
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offence.
Application for registration and amendment
10.
(1) A person applying for registration shall state whether he wishes to be registered as a data user, as a
person carrying on a computer bureau or as a data user who also carries on a computer bureau, and shall
furnish the Commissioner, in such form as the Commissioner may require, with the particulars required to be
included in the entry to be made in pursuance of the application.
(2) Where a person intends to hold personal data for two or more purposes he may make separate applications
for registration in respect of any of those purposes.
(3) A registered person may at any time apply to the Commissioner for the alteration of any particulars included
in the entry or entries relating to that person.
(4) Where the alteration would consist of the addition of a purpose for which personal data are to be held, the
person may, instead of making an application under subsection (3), make a fresh application for registration in
respect of the additional purpose.
(5) A registered person shall make an application under subsection (3) whenever necessary for ensuring that
the entry or entries relating to that person contain his current address; and any person who fails to comply with
this subsection shall be guilty of an offence.
(6) Any person who, in connection with an application for registration or the alteration of registered particulars,
knowingly or recklessly furnishes the Commissioner with information which is false or misleading in a material
respect shall be guilty of an offence.
(7)Every application for registration shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee, and every application for the
alteration of registered particulars shall be accompanied by such fee, if any, as may be prescribed.
(8) Any application for registration or the alteration of registered particulars may be withdrawn by notice in
writing to the Commissioner at any time before the applicant receives a notification in respect of the application
under section 11(1).
Acceptance and refusal of applications
11.
(1) Subject to this section, the Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable and in any case within the
period of 6 months after receiving an application for registration or for the alteration of registered particulars,
notify the applicant in writing whether his application has been accepted or refused; and where the
Commissioner notifies an applicant that his application has been accepted, the notification shall state —
(a) the particulars entered in the register, or the alteration made; and
(b) the date on which the particulars were entered or the alteration was made.
(2) The Commissioner shall not refuse an application made in accordance with section 10 unless —
(a) he considers that the particulars proposed for registration or, as the case may be, the particulars that would
result from the proposed alteration, will not give sufficient information as to the matters to which they relate;
(b) he is satisfied that the applicant is likely to contravene any of the data protection principles; or
(c) he considers that the information available to him is insufficient to satisfy him that the applicant is unlikely to
contravene any of those principles.
(3) Subsection (2)(a) shall not be construed as precluding the acceptance by the Commissioner of particulars
expressed in general terms in cases where that is appropriate, and the Commissioner shall accept particulars
expressed in such terms in any case in which he is satisfied that more specific particulars would be likely to
prejudice the purpose or purposes for which the data are to be held.
(4) Where the Commissioner refuses an application under this section he shall give his reasons and inform the
applicant of the right of appeal conferred by section 17.
Duration and renewal of registration
12.
(1) No entry shall be retained in the register after the expiration of the initial period of registration except
in pursuance of a renewal application made to the Commissioner in accordance with this section.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the initial period of registration and the period for which an entry is to be retained
in pursuance of a renewal application (“the renewal period”) shall be a period 5 years beginning with the date
on which the entry in question was made or, as the case may be, the date on which that entry would fall to be
removed if the application had not been made.
(3) The person making an application for registration or a renewal application may, in his application specify as
the initial period of registration or, as the case may be, as the renewal period, a period shorter than five years,
being a period consisting of one or more complete years.
(4) Where the Commissioner notifies an applicant for registration that his application has been accepted, the
notification shall state the date when the initial period of registration will expire.
(5) Any person who, in connection with a renewal application, knowingly or recklessly furnishes the
Commissioner with information which is false or misleading in a material respect shall be guilty of an offence.
(6) Every renewal application shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee and no such application shall be
made except in the period of 6 months ending with the expiration of —
(a) the initial period of registration; or
(b) if there have been one or more previous renewal applications, the current renewal period.
(7) Where a person making a renewal application notifies the Commissioner in writing that no alteration of
registered particulars is sought, no further particulars may be demanded in support of the application.
(8) Any renewal application may be sent by post, and the Commissioner shall acknowledge its receipt and
notify the applicant in writing of the date until which the entry in question will be retained in the register in
pursuance of the application.
(9) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this section, the Commissioner may at any time remove an
entry from the register at the request of the person to whom the entry relates.
Inspection etc. of registered particulars
13.
(1) The Commissioner shall provide facilities for making the information contained in the entries in the
register available for inspection (in visible and legible form) by members of the public at all reasonable hours
on payment of such fee, if any, as may be prescribed.
(2) The Commissioner shall, on payment of such fee, if any, as may be prescribed, supply any member of the
public with a duly certified copy in writing of the particulars contained in the entry made in the register in
pursuance of any application for registration.
Enforcement notice
14.
(1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that a registered person has contravened or is contravening any of the
data protection principles, the Commissioner may serve that person with an enforcement notice requiring him
to take, within such time as is specified in the notice, such steps as are so specified for complying with the
principle or principles in question.
(2) In deciding whether to serve an enforcement notice the Commissioner shall consider whether the
contravention has caused or is likely to cause any person damage or distress.
(3) An enforcement notice in respect of a contravention of the fifth data protection principle may require the
user —
(a) to rectify or erase the data and any other data held by him and containing an expression of opinion which
appears to the Commissioner to be based on the inaccurate data; or
(b) in the case of such data as are mentioned in section 29(2), either to take the steps mentioned in paragraph
(a) or to take such steps as are specified in the notice for securing compliance with the requirements specified
in section 29(2) and, if the Commissioner thinks fit, for supplementing the data with such statements of the true
facts relating to the matters dealt with by the data as the Commissioner may approve.
(4) The Commissioner shall not serve an enforcement notice requiring the person served with notice to take
steps for complying with paragraph (a) of the seventh data protection principle in respect of any data subject
unless satisfied that the person has contravened section 28 by failing to supply information to which the data
subject is entitled and which has been duly requested in accordance with that section.
(5) An enforcement notice shall contain —
(a) a statement of the principle or principles which the Commissioner is satisfied have been or are being
contravened and his reasons for reaching that conclusion; and
(b) particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 17.
(6) Subject to subsection (7), the time specified in an enforcement notice for taking the steps which it requires
shall not expire before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and, if
such an appeal is brought, those steps need not be taken pending the determination or withdrawal of the
appeal.
(7) If by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner considers that the steps required by an
enforcement notice should be taken as a matter of urgency, he may include a statement to that effect in the
notice, and in that event, subsection (6) shall not apply.
(8) The Commissioner may cancel an enforcement notice by written notification to the person on whom it was
served.
(9) Any person who fails to comply with an enforcement notice shall be guilty of an offence; but it shall be a
defence for the person charged with an offence under this subsection to prove that he exercised all due
diligence to comply with the notice in question.
De-registration notice
15.
(1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that a registered person has contravened or is contravening any of the
data protection principles, the Commissioner may —
(a) serve the person with a de-registration notice stating that the Commissioner proposes, at the expiration of
such period as is specified in the notice, to remove from the register all or any of the particulars constituting the
entry or any of the entries contained in the register in respect of that person; and
(b) subject to the provisions of this section, remove those particulars from the register at the expiration of that
period.
(2) In deciding whether to serve a de-registration notice, the Commissioner shall consider whether the
contravention has caused or is likely to cause any person damage or distress, and the Commissioner shall not
serve such a notice unless he is satisfied that compliance with the principle or principles in question cannot be
adequately secured by the service of an enforcement notice.
(3) A de-registration notice shall contain —
(a) a statement of the principle or principles which the Commissioner is satisfied have been or are being
contravened and the reasons for reaching that conclusion; and
(b) particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 17.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), the period specified in a deregistration notice shall not expire before the end of the
period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and, if such an appeal is brought, the
particulars shall not be removed pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(5) If by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner considers that any particulars should be removed
from the register as a matter of urgency, he may include a statement to that effect in the de-registration notice;
and in that event subsection (4) shall not apply and the particulars shall be removed immediately.
(6) The Commissioner may cancel a de-registration notice by written notification to the person on whom it was
served.
Transfer prohibition notice
16.
(1) If it appears to the Commissioner that a person registered as a data user or as a data user who also
carries on a computer bureau proposes to transfer personal data held by him to a place outside Seychelles, the
Commissioner may, if satisfied that the transfer is likely to contravene or lead to a contravention of any data
protection principle, serve that person with a transfer prohibition notice prohibiting him from transferring the
data either absolutely or until he has taken such steps as are specified in the notice for protecting the interests
of the data subjects in question.
(2) In deciding whether to serve a transfer prohibition notice, the Commissioner shall consider whether the
notice is required for preventing damage or distress to any person and shall have regard to the general
desirability of facilitating the free transfer of data between Seychelles and other states.
(3) A transfer prohibition notice shall specify the time when it is to take effect and contain —
(a) a statement of the principle or principles which the Commissioner is satisfied is or are likely to be
contravened and his reasons for reaching that conclusion; and
(b) particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 17.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), the time specified in a transfer prohibition notice pursuant to subsection (3) shall
not be before the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and, if such an
appeal is brought, the notice shall not take effect pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(5) If by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner considers that the prohibition notice should take
effect as a matter of urgency, he may include a statement to that effect in the transfer prohibition notice, and in
that event, subsection (4) shall not apply and the notice shall take effect immediately.
(6) The Commissioner may cancel a transfer prohibition notice by written notification to the person on whom it
was served.
(7) No transfer prohibition notice shall prohibit the transfer of any data where the transfer of the information
constituting the data is required or authorised by or under any enactment or required by any convention or
other instrument imposing an international obligation on Seychelles.
(8) Any person who contravenes a transfer prohibition notice shall be guilty of an offence but it shall be a
defence for a person charged with an offence under this subsection to prove that he exercised all due
diligence to avoid a contravention of the notice in question.
Right of appeal
17.

(1) A person may appeal to the Minister against —

(a) any refusal by the Commissioner of an application by that person for registration or for the alteration of
registered particulars;
(b) any enforcement notice, de-registration notice or transfer prohibition notice with which that person has
been served.
(2) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the procedures for the making and the determination of
appeals under this section.
Determination of appeals
18.
(1) If on an appeal under section 17 the Minister considers that the refusal or notice against which the
appeal is brought is not in accordance with the law, the Minister shall allow the appeal or substitute such other
decision or notice as could have been made or served by the Commissioner; and in any other case the Minister
shall dismiss the appeal.
(2) The Minister may review any determination of fact on which the refusal or notice in question was based.
(3) Any party to an appeal to the Minister may appeal from the decision of the Minister on a point of law to the
Supreme Court.
Unauthorised disclosure by computer bureaux
19.
(1) Personal data in respect of which services are provided by a person carrying on a computer bureau
shall not be disclosed by that person without the prior authority of the person for whom those services are
provided.
(2) Subsection (1) applies also to any servant or agent of a person carrying on a computer bureau.
(3) Any person who knowingly or recklessly contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence.
Power of entry and inspection
20.
(1) If a Judge of the Supreme Court is satisfied by information on oath supplied by the Commissioner that
there are reasonable grounds for suspecting —
(a) that an offence under this Act has been or is being committed; or
(b)that any of the data protection principles has been or is being contravened by a registered person,
and that evidence of the commission of the offence or of the contravention is to be found on any premises
specified in the information, he may grant a warrant authorising the Commissioner or any of his officers to enter
those premises, to search them, to inspect, examine, operate and test any data equipment found there and to
inspect and seize any documents or other material found there which may be such evidence asaforesaid.
(2) For the purpose of this section, “premises” includes any vessel, vehicle, aircraft or hovercraft and references
to the occupier of any premises include references to any person in charge of any vessel, vehicle, aircraft or
hovercraft.
Execution of warrants
21.
(1) A person executing a warrant issued under section 20 may use such reasonable force as may be
necessary.
(2) A warrant issued under section 20 shall be executed at a reasonable hour unless it appears to the person
executing it that there are grounds for suspecting that the evidence in question would not be found if it were so
executed.
(3) If the person who occupies the premises in respect of which a warrant is issued under section 20 is present
when the warrant is executed, he shall be shown and supplied with a copy of it; and if that person is not present
a copy of the warrant shall be left in a prominent place on the premises.
(4) A person seizing anything in pursuance of a warrant under section 20 shall give a receipt for it if asked to do
so, and retain the thing seized for so long as is necessary in all the circumstances.
Matters exempt from inspection and seizure
22.
The powers of inspection and seizure conferred by a warrant issued under section 20 shall not be
exercisable in respect of —
(a) personal data which are exempt from Part II;
(b) any communication between an attorney-at-law and his client in connection with the giving of legal advice
to the client with respect to his obligations, liabilities or rights under this Act.
Return of warrants
23.

A warrant issued under section 20 shall be returned to theRegistrar of the Supreme Court —

(a) after being executed; or
(b) if not executed within the time authorised for its execution, and the person by whom any such warrant is
executed shall make an endorsement on it stating what powers have been exercised by him under the warrant.
Offences
24.

Any person who —

(a) intentionally obstructs a person in the execution of a warrant issued under section 20; or
(b) fails without reasonable excuse to give any person executing such a warrant such assistance as he may
reasonably require for the execution of the warrant, shall be guilty of an offence.
Disclosure of information
25.

No enactment or rule of law prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of information shall preclude —

(a) a person from furnishing the Commissioner or the Minister with any information necessary for the discharge
of their functions under this Act; or
(b) the Commissioner or any officer or servant of the Commissioner from disclosing any information where the
disclosure is made for the purpose of discharging his duties under this Act or for the purpose of proceedings
under or arising out of this Act.
Prosecution and penalties
26.
(1) Proceedings for an offence under this Act may be instituted by the Commissioner or by, or with the
consent of the Attorney General.
(2) A person guilty of an offence under any provision of this Act shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding R20,000.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), the court by which a person is convicted of an offence under sections 9, 14, 16 or
19 may order any data material appearing to the court to be connected with the commission of the offence to
be forfeited, destroyed or erased.
(4) The court shall not make an order under subsection (3) in relation to any material where a person (other than
the offender) claiming to be the owner or otherwise interested in it applies to be heard by the court, unless an
opportunity is given to him to show cause why the order should not be made.
Liability of directors etc.
27.
(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a body corporate and is proved to have been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director,
manager, secretary or similar officer of the body corporate or any person who was purporting to act in any such
capacity, he as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of that offence and be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
(2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, subsection (1) shall apply in relation to
the acts and defaults of a member in connection with his functions of management as if he were a director of
the body corporate.
PART III – RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS
Right of access to personal data
28.

(1) Subject to this section, an individual shall be entitled —

(a) to be informed by a data user whether the data held by the data user include personal data of which that
individual is the data subject;
(b) to be supplied by a data user with a copy of the information constituting any such data held by the data
user; and
(c) where any information referred to in paragraph (b) is expressed in terms which are not intelligible without
explanation the information accompanied by an explanation of those terms.
(2) A data user shall be obliged to supply any information under subsection (1) only in response to a request in
writing and on payment of such fee (not exceeding the prescribed maximum) as he may require; but a request
for information under paragraphs (a) and (b) of that subsection shall be treated as a single request.

Seychelles Revenue
Commission Act
Revenue Administration Act
Complaints Bureau Act

(3) In the case of a data user having separate entries in the register in respect of data held for different purposes
a separate request shall be made and a separate fee paid in respect of the data to which each entry relates.
(4) A data user shall not be obliged to comply with a request under this section —
(a) unless he is given the information he may reasonably require to satisfy himself as to the identity of the
person making the request and to locate the information which that person seeks; and
(b) if he cannot comply with the request without disclosing information relating to another individual who can
be identified from that information, unless he is satisfied that the other individual has consented to the
disclosure of the information to the person making the request.
(5) In subsection (4)(b) the reference to information relating to another individual includes a reference to
information identifying that individual as the source of the information sought by the request; and subsection (4)
(b) shall not be construed as excusing a data user from supplying so much of the information sought by the
request as can be supplied without disclosing the identity of the other individual concerned, whether by the
omission of names or other identifying particulars or otherwise.
(6) A data user shall comply with a request under this section within 40 days of receiving the request or, if later,
receiving the information referred to in subsection (4)(a) and, in a case where it is required, the consent referred
to in subsection (4)(b).
(7) The information to be supplied pursuant to a request under this section shall be supplied by reference to the
data in question at the time when the request is received except that it may take account of any amendment or
deletion made between that time and the time when the information is supplied, being an amendment or
deletion that would have been made regardless of the receipt of the request.
(8) If the Court is satisfied on the application of any person who has made a request under the foregoing
provisions of this section that the data user in question has failed to comply with the request in contravention of
those provisions, the Court may order him to comply with the request; but the Court shall not make an order
under this subsection if it considers that it would in all the circumstances be unreasonable to do so, whether
because of the frequency with which the applicant has made requests to the data user under those provisions
or for any other reason.
Compensation for inaccuracy
29.
(1) An individual who is the subject of personal data held by a data user and who suffers damage by
reason of the inaccuracy of the data shall be entitled to compensation from the data user for that damage and
for any distress which the individual has suffered by reason of the inaccuracy.
(2) In the case of data which accurately record information received or obtained by the data user from the data
subject or a third party, subsection (1) does not apply if the following requirements have been complied with—
(a) the data indicate that the information was received or obtained as aforesaid or the information has not been
extracted from the data except in a form which includes an indication to that effect; and
(b) if the data subject has notified the data user that he regards the information as incorrect or misleading, an
indication to that effect has been included in the data or the information has not been extracted from the data
except in a form which includes an indication to that effect.
(3) In proceedings brought against any person by virtue of this section it shall be a defence to prove that he had
taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to ensure the accuracy of the data at the
material time.
(4) Data are inaccurate for the purposes of this section if incorrect or misleading as to any matter of fact.
Compensation for loss or unauthorised disclosure
30.
(1) An individual who is the subject of personal data held by a data user or in respect of which services
are provided by a person carrying on a computer bureau and who suffers damage by reason of —
(a) the loss of the data;
(b) the destruction of the data without the authority of the data user or, as the case may be, of the person
carrying on the bureau; or
(c) subject to subsection (2) the disclosure of the data, or access having been obtained to the data, without
such authority as aforesaid, shall be entitled to compensation from the data user or, as the case may be, the
person carrying on the bureau for that damage and for any distress which the individual has suffered by reason
of the loss, destruction, disclosure or access.
(2) In the case of a registered data user, subsection (1) (c) does not apply to disclosure to, or access by, any
person falling within a description specified pursuant to section 8 (3)(d) in an entry in the register relating to that
data user,
(3) In proceedings brought against any person by virtue of this section it shall be a defence to prove that he had
taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to prevent the loss, destruction, disclosure
or access in question.
Rectification and erasure
31.
(1) If the Court is satisfied on the application of a data subject that personal data held by a data user of
which the applicant is the subject are inaccurate within the meaning of section 29, the Court may order the
rectification or erasure of the data and any data held by the data user and containing an expression of opinion
which appears to the Court to be based on the inaccurate data.
(2) Subsection (1) applies whether or not the data accurately record information received or obtained by the
data user from the data subject or a third party but where the data accurately record such information then —
(a) if the requirements mentioned in section 29 have been complied with, the Court may instead of making an
order under subsection (1), make an order requiring the data to be supplemented by such statement of the true
facts relating to the matters dealt with by the data as the Court may approve; and
(b) if all or any of those requirements have been complied with, the Court may, instead of making an order
under subsection (1) make such order as it thinks fit for securing compliance with those requirements with or
without a further order requiring the data to be supplemented by such a statement as mentioned in paragraph
(a).
(3) If the Court is satisfied on the application of a data subject—
(a) that he has suffered damage by reason of the disclosure of personal data, or of access having been obtained
to personal data, in circumstances entitling him to compensation under section 30; and
(b) that there is a substantial risk of further disclosure of or access to the data without such authority as is
mentioned in that section,
the Court may order the erasure of the data; but, in the case of data in respect of which services were being
provided by a person carrying on a computer bureau, the Court shall not make such an order unless such steps
as are reasonably practicable have been taken for notifying the person for whom those services were provided
and giving him an opportunity to be heard.
No access pending court determination
32.
For the purpose of determining any question whether an applicant under section 28(8) is entitled to the
information which he seeks (including any question whether any relevant data are exempt from that section by
virtue of Part IV), the Court may require the information constituting any data held by the data user to be made
available for its own inspection but shall not, pending the determination of that question in the applicant's
favour, require the information sought by the applicant to be disclosed to him or his representatives whether by
discovery or otherwise.
PART IV – EXEMPTIONS
Preliminary
33.
(1) References in any provision of Part II or III to personal data do not include references to data which by
virtue of this Part are exempt from that provision.
(2) In this Part “the subject access provisions” means —
(a) section 28; and
(b) any provision of Part II conferring power on the Commissioner to the extent to which it is exercisable by
reference to paragraph (a) of the seventh data protection principle.
(3) In this Part of this Act “the non-disclosure provisions” means—
(a) sections 9(2)(d) and 19; and
(b) any provision of Part II conferring a power on the Commissioner to the extent to which it is exercisable by
reference to any data protection principle inconsistent with the disclosure in question.
(4) Except as provided by this Part, the subject access provisions shall apply notwithstanding any enactment or
rule of law prohibiting or restricting the disclosure, or authorising the withholding, of information.
National security
34.
(1) Personal data are exempt from the provisions of Part II and of sections 28 to 31 if the exemption is
required for the purpose of safeguarding national security.
(2) Any question whether the exemption mentioned in subsection (1) is or at any time was required for the
purpose there mentioned in respect of any personal data shall be determined by the Minister and a certificate
signed by the Minister certifying that the exemption is or at any time was so required shall be conclusive
evidence of that fact.
(3) Personal data which are not exempt under subsection (1) are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions in
any case in which the disclosure of the data is for the purpose of safeguarding national security.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), a certificate signed by the Minister certifying that personal data are or
have been disclosed for the purpose mentioned in that subsection shall be conclusive evidence of that fact.
(5) A document purporting to be such a certificate as is mentioned in this section shall be received in evidence
and deemed to be such a certificate unless the contrary is proved.
Crime and taxation
35.

(1) Personal data held for any of the following purposes —

(a) the prevention or detection of crime;
(b) the apprehension or prosecution of offenders; or
(c) the assessment or collection of any tax or duty,
are exempt from the subject access provisions in any case in which the application of those provisions to the
data would be likely to prejudice any of the matters mentioned in this subsection.
(2) Personal data which —
(a) are held for the purpose of discharging statutory functions; and
(b) consist of information obtained for such a purpose from a person who had it in his possession for any of the
purposes mentioned in subsection (1),
are exempt from the subject access provisions to the same extent as personal data held for any of the
purposes mentioned in that subsection.
(3) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions in any case in which —
(a) the disclosure is for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1); and
(b) the application of those provisions in relation to the disclosure would be likely to prejudice any of the
matters mentioned in that subsection;
and in proceedings against any person for contravening section 9(2)(d) or 19 it shall be a defence to prove that
he had reasonable grounds for believing that failure to make the disclosure in question would have been likely
to prejudice any of those matters.
(4) Personal data are exempt from the provisions of Part II conferring powers on the Commissioner, to the extent
to which they are exercisable by reference to the first data protection principle, in any case in which the
application of those provisions to the data would be likely to prejudice any of the matters mentioned in
subsection (1).
Health and social work
36.
(1) The Minister may by order exempt from the subject access provisions, or modify those provisions in
relation to, personal data consisting of information as to the physical or mental health of the data subject.
(2) The Minister may by order exempt from the subject access provisions, or modify those provisions in relation
to, personal data of such other descriptions as may be specified in the order, being information —
(a) held by government departments or voluntary organisations or other bodies designated by the order; and
(b) appearing to him to be held for, or acquired in the course of, carrying out social work in relation to the data
subject or other individuals;
but the Minister shall not under this subsection confer any exemption or make any modification except so far as
he considers that the application to the data of those provisions (or of those provisions without modification)
would be likely to prejudice the carrying out of social work.
(3) An order under this section may make different provision in relation to data consisting of information of
different descriptions.
Regulation of financial services etc.
37.
(1) Personal data held for the purpose of discharging statutory functions to which this section applies are
exempt from the subject access provisions in any case in which the application of those provisions to the data
would be likely to prejudice the proper discharge of those functions.
(2) This section applies to any functions designated for the purpose of this section by an order made by the
Minister, being functions conferred by or under any enactment appearing to him to be designed for protecting
members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice by persons
concerned in the provision of banking, insurance, investment or other financial services or in the management
of companies or to the conduct of discharged or undischarged bankrupts.
Appointments and professional privilege
38.
(1) Personal data held by a government department are exempt from the subject access provisions if the
data consist of information which has been received from a third party and is held as information relevant to the
making of appointments.
(2) Personal data are exempt from the subject access provisionsif the data consists of information in respect of
which a claim to legal professional privilege could be maintained in legal proceedings.
Payrolls and accounts
39.

(1) Personal data held by a data user only for one or more of the following purposes —

(a) calculating amounts payable by way of remuneration or pensions or gratuities in respect of services in any
employment; or
(b) keeping accounts relating to any business or other activity carried on by the data user; or
(c) distributing or supplying, or recording the distribution or supply of, articles, information or services to the
data subjects are exempt from the provisions of Part II and of sections 28 to 31.
(2) It shall be a condition of the exemption of any data under this section that the data are not used for any
purpose other than the purpose or purposes for which they are held and are not disclosed except as permitted
by subsections (3) and (4); but the exemption shall not be lost by any use or disclosure in breach of that
condition if the data user shows that he had taken such care to prevent it as in all the circumstances was
reasonably required.
(3) Data held only for one or more of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1) (a) may be disclosed —
(a) to any person by whom the remuneration or pensions in question are payable;
(b) for the purpose of obtaining actuarial advice;
(c) as information for use in medical research into the health of persons engaged in particular occupations or
working in particular places or areas;
(d) if the data subject has requested or consented to the disclosure of the data either generally or in specified
circumstances.
(4) Data held for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1) may be disclosed —
(a) for the purpose of audit or where the disclosure is for the purpose only of giving information about the data
user's financial affairs; or
(b) in any case in which disclosure would be permitted by any other provision of this Part if subsection (2) were
included among the non-disclosure provisions.
Domestic or other limited purposes
40.
(1) Personal data held by an individual and concerned only with the management of his personal, family
or household affairs or held by him only for recreational purposes are exempt from the provisions of Part II and
of sections 28 to 31.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) —
(a) personal data held by an unincorporated members' club and relating only to the members of the club; and
(b) personal data held by a data user only for the purpose of distributing, or recording the distribution of, articles
or information to the data subjects and consisting only of their names, addresses or other particulars necessary
for effecting the distribution, are exempt from the provisions of Part II and of sections 20 to 31.
(3) Subsection (2) shall apply to personal data relating to any data subject only if has been notified by the club
or data user that data relating to him is held as mentioned in that paragraph and has not objected to its being
so held.
(4) It shall be a condition of the exemption of any data under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) that the data are
not used for any purpose other than that for which they are held and of the exemption of any data under either
paragraph of that subsection that the data are not disclosed except as permitted by subsection (5); but the first
exemption shall not be lost by any use, and neither exemption shall be lost by any disclosure, in breach of that
condition if the data user shows that he had taken such care to prevent it as in all the circumstances was
reasonably required.
(5) Data to which subsection (4) applies may be disclosed —
(a) if the data subject has requested or consented to the disclosure of the data either generally or in specified
circumstances;
(b) if the person making the disclosure has reasonable grounds for believing that the disclosure falls within
paragraph (a); or
(c) in any case in which disclosure would be permitted by any provision of this Part if subsection (4) were
included among the non-disclosure provisions.
(6) Personal data held only for —
(a) preparing statistics; or
(b)carrying out research,
are exempt from the subject access provisions; but it shall be a condition of the exemption that the data are not
used for any other purpose, or disclosed (otherwise than in a case mentioned in section 41(5)) for any other
purpose, and that the resulting statistics or the results of the research are not made available in a form which
identifies the data subjects or any of them.
Other exemptions
41.
(1) Personal data held by any person are exempt from the provisions of Part II and of sections 28 to 31 if
the data consist of information which that person is required by or under any enactment to make available to
the public, whether by publishing it, making it available for inspection or otherwise and whether gratuitously or
on payment of a fee.
(2) The Minister may by order exempt from the subject access provisions data consisting of information the
disclosure of which is prohibited or restricted by or under any enactment if he considers that the prohibition or
restriction ought to prevail over those provisions in the interests of the data subject or of any other individual.
(3) Personal data are exempt from the subject access provisions if the data are kept only for the purpose of
replacing other data in the event of the latter being lost, destroyed or impaired.
(4) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions in any case in which the disclosure is —
(a) required by or under any enactment, by any rule of law or by the order of a court; or
(b) made for the purpose of obtaining legal advice or for the purposes of, or in the course of, legal proceedings
in which the person making the disclosure is a party or a witness.
(5) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions in any case in which —
(a) the disclosure is to the data subject or a person acting on his behalf; or
(b) the data subject or any such person has requested orconsented to the particular disclosure in question; or
(c) the disclosure is by a data user or a person carrying
on a computer bureau to his servant or agent for thepurpose of enabling the servant or agent to performhis
functions as such.
(6) Personal data are exempt from the non-disclosure provisions in any case in which the disclosure is urgently
required for preventing injury or other damage to the health of any person or persons; and in proceedings
against any person for contravening section 9(2)(d) or 19 it shall be a defence to prove that he had reasonable
grounds for believing that the disclosure in question was urgently required for that purpose.
(7) A person need not comply with a notice, request or order under the subject access provisions if compliance
would expose him to proceedings for any offence other than an offence under this Act; and information
disclosed by any person in compliance with such notice, request or order shall not be admissible against him in
proceedings for an offence under this Act.
Examination marks
42.
(1) Section 28 shall have effect subject to the provisions of this section in the case of personal data
consisting of marks or other information held by a data user —
(a) for the purpose of determining the results of an academic, professional or other examination or of enabling
the results of any such examination to be
determined; or
(b) in consequence of the determination of any such results.
(2) Where the period mentioned in section 28(6) begins before the results of the examination are announced
that period shall be extended until the end of 40 days after the date of the announcement.
(3) Where by virtue of subsection (2) a request is complied with more than 40 days after the beginning of the
period mentioned in section 28(6), the information to be supplied pursuant to the request shall be supplied
both by reference to the data in question at the time when the request is received and (if different) by reference
to the data as from time to time held in the period beginning when the request is received and ending when it
is complied with.
(4) For the purposes of this section the results of an examination shall be treated as announced when they are
first published or (if not published) when they are first made available or communicated to the candidate in
question.
(5) In this section “examination” includes any process for determining the knowledge, intelligence, skill or ability
of a candidate by reference to his performance in any test, work or other activity.
PART V – GENERAL
General duties of the Commissioner
43.
(1) It shall be the duty of the Commissioner so to perform his functions under this Act as to promote the
observance of the data protection principles by data users and persons carrying on computer bureaux.
(2) The Commissioner may consider any complaint that any of the data protection principles or any provision of
this Act has been or is being contravened and shall do so if the complaint appears to him to raise a matter of
substance and to have been made without undue delay by a person directly affected; and where the
Commissioner considers any such complaint he shall notify the complainant of the result of his consideration
and of any action which he proposes to take.
(3) The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination, in such form and manner as he considers
appropriate, of such information as it may appear to him expedient to give to the public about the operation of
this Act and other matters within the scope of his functions under this Act and may give advice to any person as
to any of those matters.
(4) The Commissioner shall, where he considers it appropriate to do so, encourage trade associations or other
bodies representing data users to prepare, and to disseminate to their members, codes of practice for
guidance in complying with the data protection principles.
(5) The Commissioner shall annually submit to the Minister a general report on the performance of the
Commissioner's functions under this Act.
Application to Public Authorities
44.
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), a Public Authority shall be subject to the same obligations and
liabilities under this Act as a private person; and for the purposes of this Act each Public Authority shall be
treated as a person separate from any other Public Authority and a member of the Public Service shall be
treated as a servant of the Public Authority to which his responsibilities or duties relate.
(2) A Public Authority shall not be liable to prosecution under this Act but—
(a) sections 9(3) and 19(2) and, so far as relating to those provisions, sections 9(5) and 19(3) shall apply to a
member of the Public Service who by virtue of this section falls to be treated as a servant of the Public
Authority in question; and
(b) sections 10(6) and 24 shall apply to a member of the Public Service as they apply to any other person.
(3) For the purposes of this section, “Public Authority” means a Ministry, department, division or agency of the
Government or a statutory corporation or a limited liability company which is directly or ultimately under the
control of the Government or any other body which is carrying out a governmental function or service or a
person or body specified by an Act.
Data held and services provided outside Seychelles
45.
(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, this Act does not apply to a data user in respect of
data held, or to a person carrying on a computer bureau in respect of services provided, outside Seychelles.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —
(a) data shall be treated as held where the data user exercises the control referred to in section 2(9)(b) in
relation to the data; and
(b) services shall be treated as provided where the person carrying on the computer bureau does any of the
things referred to in section 2(10)(a) or (b).
(3) Where a person who is not resident in Seychelles —
(a) exercises the control mentioned in subsection (2)(a); or
(b) does any of the things mentioned in subsection (2)(b) through a servant or agent in Seychelles, this Act shall
apply as if that control were exercised or, as the case may be, those things were done, in Seychelles by the
servant or agent acting on his own account and not on behalf of the person whose servant or agent he is.
(4) Where by virtue of subsection (3) a servant or agent is treated as a data user or as a person carrying on a
computer bureau, he may be described for the purposes of registration by the position or office which he holds;
and any such description in an entry in the register shall be treated as applying to the person for the time being
holding the position or office in question.
(5) This Act does not apply to data processed wholly outside Seychelles unless the data are used or intended
to be used in Seychelles.
(6) Sections 8(3)(e), 9(2)(e) and section 16(1) do not apply to the transfer of data which are already outside
Seychelles but references in section 16 to a contravention of the data protection principles include references
to anything that would constitute such contravention if it occurred in relation to the data when held in
Seychelles.
Regulations and orders
46.

(1) The Minister may by regulations prescribe any matter which by this Act is to be prescribed.

(2) Without prejudice to sections 3(6) and 36(3), regulations o orders under this Act may make different provision
for different cases or circumstances.
(3) Before making regulations or orders under any provision of this Act, the Minister may consult the
Commissioner.
Transitional provisions
47.
(1) No application for registration shall be made until such day as the Minister may by Order published in
the Official Gazette appoint, and sections 9 and 19 shall not apply until the end of the period of 6 months
beginning with that day.
(2) Until the end of the period of 2 years beginning with the day appointed under subsection (1), the
Commissioner shall not have the power—
(a) to refuse an application made in accordance with section 10 except on the ground mentioned in section
11(2)(a); or
(b) to serve an enforcement notice imposing requirements to be complied with, a de-registration notice
expiring, or a transfer prohibition notice imposing a prohibition taking effect, before the end of that period.
(3) Where the Commissioner proposes to serve any person with an enforcement notice before the end of the
period mentioned in subsection (2) he shall, in determining the time by which the requirements of the notice
are to be complied with, have regard to the probable cost to that person of complying with those requirements.
(4) Section 28 and section 20 (1)(b) shall not apply until the end of the period mentioned in subsection (2).
(5) Section 29 shall not apply to damage suffered before the end of the period mentioned in subsection (1) and
in deciding whether to refuse an application or serve a notice under Part II the Commissioner shall treat the
provision about accuracy in the fifth data protection principle as inapplicable until the end of that period and as
inapplicable thereafter to data shown to have been held by the data user in question since before the end of
that period.
(6) Sections 30 and 31(3) shall not apply to damage suffered before the end of the period of 2 months beginning
with the date on which this Act is brought into operation.
(7) Section 31 (1) and (2) shall not apply before the end of theperiod mentioned in subsection (1).
_______________________
SCHEDULE (Section 3): DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES
PART I – THE PRINCIPLES
Personal data held by data users
1.
The information to be contained in personal data shall be obtained, and personal data shall be
processed, fairly and lawfully.
2.

Personal data shall be held only for one or more specified and lawful purposes.

3.
Personal data held for any purpose or purposes shall not be used or disclosed in any manner
incompatible with that purpose or those purposes.
4.
Personal data held for any purpose or purposes shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation
to that purpose or those purposes.
5.

Personal data shall be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date.

6.
Personal data held for any purpose or purposes shall not be kept for longer than is necessary for that
purpose or those purposes.
7.

An individual shall be entitled —

(a) at reasonable intervals and without undue delay or expense—
(i) to be informed by any data user whether he holds personal data of which that individual is the subject; and
(ii) to access to any such data held by a data user; and
(b) where appropriate, to have such data corrected or erased.
Personal data held by data users or in respect of which servicesare provided by persons carrying on computer
bureau
8.
Appropriate security measures shall be taken against unauthorised access to, or alteration, disclosure or
destruction of, personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of personal data.
PART II - INTERPRETATION
The first principle
1.
(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), in determining whether information was obtained fairly regard shall be
had to the method by which it was obtained, including in particular whether any person from whom it was
obtained was deceived or misled as to the purpose or purposes for which it is to be held, used or disclosed.
(2) Information shall in any event be treated as obtained fairly if itis obtained from a person who —
(a) is authorised by or under any enactment to supply it; or
(b) is required to supply it by or under any enactment or by any convention or other instrument imposing an
international obligation on the Republic of Seychelles; and in determining whether information was obtained
fairly there shall be disregarded any disclosure of the information which is authorised or required by or under
any enactment or required by any such convention or other instrument as aforesaid.
The second principle
Personal data shall not be treated as held for a specified purpose unless that purpose is described in
particulars registered under this Act in relation to the data.
Personal data shall not be treated as used or disclosed in contravention of this principle unless —
(a) used otherwise than for a purpose of a description registered under this Act in relation to the data; or
(b) disclosed otherwise than to a person of a description so registered.
The fifth principle
4.
Any question whether or not personal data are accurate shall be determined as for the purposes of
section 29 but, in the case of such data as are mentioned in subsection (2) of that section, this principle shall not
be regarded as having been contravened by reason of any inaccuracy in the information there mentioned if the
requirements specified in that subsection have been complied with.
The fourth and sixth principles have not been interpreted.
The seventh principle
5.
28.

(1) Paragraph (a) of this principle shall not be construed as conferring any rights inconsistent with section

(2) In determining whether access to personal data is sought at reasonable intervals regard shall be had to the
nature of the data, the purpose for which the data are held and the frequency with which the data are altered.
(3) The correction or erasure of personal data is appropriate only, where necessary for ensuring compliance
with the other data protection principles.
The eighth principle
6.

Regard shall be had —

(a) to the nature of the personal data and the harm that would result from such access, alteration, disclosure,
loss or destruction as are mentioned in this principle; and
(b) to the place where the personal data are stored, to security measures programmed into the relevant
equipment and to measures taken for ensuring the reliability of staff having access to the data.
Use for historical, statistical or research purposes
7.
Where personal data are held for historical, statistical or research purposes and not used in such a way
that damage is, or is likely to be, caused to any data subject —
(a) the information contained in the data shall not be regarded for the purposes of the first principle as obtained
unfairly by reason only that its use for any such purpose was not disclosed when it was obtained; and
(b) the data may, notwithstanding the sixth principle, be kept indefinitely.
______________________________
NO SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION
______________________________

Useful links

Free African Law

Free Foreign Law

Government of the Seychelles

African Law (AfricanLII)

Australian Law

National Assembly of the
Seychelles

Botswana e-Laws​

Bar Association of the Seychelles

Ethiopian Law

Commonwealth Countries' Law

Ghana Law (GhaLII)

French Law

University of Seychelles (Law)
Financial Services Authority
Seychelles Licensing Authority

Kenya Law
Laws of South Africa (Legislation)

Powered by

British Law
Canadian Law

LII of India
United States Law
Other

Lesotho Law (LesLII)
Liberian Law​ (LiberLII)
Malawian Law (MalawiLII)
Namibian Law (NamibLII)
Nigerian Law (NigeriaLII)
Sierra Leone Law (SierraLII)
South African Law (SAFLII)
Seychelles Law (SeyLII)
Swaziland Law (SwaziLII)
Tanzanian Law (TanzLII)
Ugandan Law (ULII)
Zambian Law (ZamLII)
Zimbabwean Law​ (ZimLII)

© 2021 . All Rights Reserved

!

"

#

