ADVISORY GUIDELINES
ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE
DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS
Issued 21 April 2016
Revised 1 February 2021

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I: INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW ................................................................................. 3
PART II: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION ......................................................................... 7
PART III: REVIEWS ................................................................................................................... 12
PART IV: INVESTIGATIONS .............................................................................................. 22
PART V: VOLUNTARY UNDERTAKINGS............................................................................. 34
PART VI: DIRECTIONS TO SECURE COMPLIANCE .................................................................... 36
PART VII: COMMON ISSUES RELATING TO THE COMMISSION’S DECISIONS AND
DIRECTIONS ............................................................................................................................. 43
PART VIII: RECONSIDERATION ................................................................................................ 45
PART IX: APPEALS AND RIGHTS OF PRIVATE ACTION AND DIRECTIONS .............................. 49

2

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART I: INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
1.

Introduction
The Personal Data Protection Act 2012 (the “PDPA”) establishes a general data
protection law in Singapore that governs the collection, use and disclosure of
individuals’ personal data by organisations. The Personal Data Protection Commission
(the “Commission”) is established under the PDPA with the key functions of, amongst
others, promoting the awareness of data protection in Singapore, and administering
and enforcing the PDPA.

1.1

These advisory guidelines (these “Guidelines”) are issued by the Commission pursuant
to section 49(1) of the PDPA to provide guidance on the manner in which the
Commission will interpret the PDPA’s provisions relating to its enforcement of the
PDPA. Where relevant, reference is made to the provisions of the regulations issued
under the PDPA, including the following:
1.1.1 Personal Data Protection Regulations 2021 (the “PDP Regulations”); and
1.1.2 Personal Data Protection (Enforcement) Regulations 2021 (the “Enforcement
Regulations”).

1.2

These Guidelines are advisory in nature and are not legally binding on the Commission,
or any other party. They do not modify or supplement in any way the legal effect and
interpretation of any laws cited including, but not limited to, the PDPA and any
subsidiary legislation (such as regulations and rules) issued under the PDPA.
Accordingly, these Guidelines shall not be construed to limit or restrict the
Commission’s administration and enforcement of the PDPA. The provisions of the
PDPA and any regulations or rules issued thereunder will prevail over these Guidelines
in the event of any inconsistency. These Guidelines do not constitute legal advice.

1.3

These Guidelines should be read in conjunction with other advisory guidelines issued
by the Commission from time to time, which explain in detail the obligations that
organisations have to comply with under the PDPA.

3

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

2.

Overview of enforcement framework and approach
The PDPA confers various powers on the Commission to enforce the PDPA. Broadly,
these powers may be categorised as follows:
2.1.1 Powers relating to alternative dispute resolution
These powers generally relate to the manner by which a complainant and an
organisation may by directed by the Commission to resolve the complainant’s
complaint, for example, through mediation or other modes of dispute
settlement.
2.1.2 Powers relating to reviews
These powers enable the Commission to review an organisation’s reply to a
request made by an individual under section 21 or 22 of the PDPA and to
confirm the organisation’s reply or direct the organisation to take certain
action in relation to the individual’s request.
2.1.3 Powers relating to investigations
These powers enable the Commission to carry out investigations to determine
whether an organisation or person is complying with the PDPA and to direct
an organisation or person that is not complying to take the appropriate action
to ensure its compliance, or to pay a financial penalty
2.1.4 Powers relating to voluntary undertakings
These powers enable the Commission to accept a voluntary undertaking from
an organisation or person including an undertaking to take specified action,
where the organisation or person has not complied, is not complying or is likely
not to comply with the PDPA. Further, if the organisation or person fails to
comply with any undertaking, the Commission may give any direction to
ensure compliance with that undertaking.
Each of the above is discussed further in Parts II, III, IV and V respectively of these
Guidelines.

2.2

In general, when considering whether, and how, to exercise its enforcement powers,
the Commission’s approach takes into account two main objectives. These are:
2.2.1 to facilitate the resolution of an individual’s complaint relating to an
organisation’s contravention, or alleged contravention, of the PDPA; and

4

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

2.2.2 to ensure that organisations comply with their obligations and, in the event an
organisation does not comply, to ensure that it takes the appropriate
corrective measures and any other necessary action in a timely manner.1
2.3

In relation to the first objective above, a key purpose of the PDPA is to enable
individuals to better protect their personal data.2 Where an individual’s rights under
the PDPA may have been infringed by an organisation, the individual may wish to have
specific corrective measures or other actions taken to address his complaint. From the
organisation’s perspective, the PDPA requires organisations to develop and
implement a process to receive and respond to complaints that may arise with respect
to the application of the PDPA.3 Related to this, organisations may, as a good practice,
wish to address complaints in an appropriate manner having regard to their customer
relationship management or public relations so as to facilitate the resolution of such
complaints by the organisation concerned.

2.4

Where the Commission receives a complaint from an individual relating to a
contravention, or possible contravention, the Commission will generally prefer to
facilitate the resolution of the matters raised in the complaint or application between
the individual and the organisation concerned instead of immediately exercising its
powers of investigation under the PDPA. In this regard, the Commission believes that
a mutually accepted resolution which addresses the concerns of the complainant
would best meet the immediate interests of both the complainant and the
organisation.

2.5

It should however be noted that the Commission is not empowered to award damages
to a complainant4. As such, the Commission will generally prefer to take other
measures (such as facilitation and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms like
mediation) to encourage the parties to discuss the issues in a complaint and find a
mutually acceptable resolution, which may include compensation. For more
information on the measures that the Commission may take when seeking to facilitate
the resolution of a complaint, please refer to Part II of these Guidelines.

2.6

In relation to the second objective set out in paragraph 2.2 above, the Commission
notes that there may be cases where many individuals may be affected by an
organisation’s contravention. Even where only an individual or a few individuals are
affected, a particular contravention may cause significant harm to the individual(s) or
may warrant stronger action by the Commission. There may also be cases where an
organisation contravened the PDPA intentionally or negligently, or it did not have the
necessary policies, procedures and processes in place to ensure its compliance with
the PDPA.

1

In some cases, as described further in these Guidelines, the Commission may impose a financial penalty on an
organisation that contravenes the PDPA.
2

See PDPA, section 3.

3

See PDPA, section 12.

4

Individuals have a private right of action under section 48O of the PDPA.

5

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

2.7

In view of the above, it is therefore an important objective of the Commission to
ensure that organisations comply with their obligations under the PDPA. The
Commission may therefore conduct a review or an investigation in certain cases and,
based on the outcome of the review or investigation, direct the organisation to take
certain actions. For more information on reviews and investigations by the
Commission, please refer to Parts III and IV respectively of these Guidelines.

2.8

For the avoidance of doubt, the two main objectives described in the preceding
paragraphs are not intended to be mutually exclusive or to preclude the Commission
from taking any action under the PDPA for other reasons. Where the Commission
considers it appropriate, the Commission may commence an investigation even if the
complainant and the organisation have reached an agreement that resolves the issues
in the complainant’s complaint. This may include situations where the facts of the case
disclose issues of general public interest, or there are other individuals who may be
affected by the conduct of the organisation.

3.

Determining whether a complaint involves personal data

3.1

When the Commission receives a complaint, it will first determine if the complaint
involves the collection, use or disclosure of personal data5.In general, the Commission
considers the following types of data, on its own, to be personal data:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

Full name6
NRIC number or FIN (Foreign Identification Number)
Passport number
Personal mobile telephone number

3.2

For instance, the Commission may commence an investigation into any breach of the
PDPA if it receives a complaint involving an organisation’s collection, use or disclosure
of a list of individuals’ NRIC numbers, even if the list does not contain any other
information, or the organisation does not have access to any other information about
the individuals.

3.3

If a complaint involves other types of data, the Commission will take a case-by-case
approach in accordance to the PDPC’s Advisory Guidelines on Key Concepts in the
PDPA to determine whether the data involved constitutes personal data.

5

Personal data is defined in section 2 of the PDPA to refer to data, whether true or not, about an individual who
can be identified (a) from that data; or (b) from that data and other information to which the organisation has
or is likely to have access.
6

Re Full House Communications Pte Ltd [2016] SGPDPC 8, where it was found that a person’s full name in the
drop down box alone would enable identification of the individual.

6

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART II: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
4.

Commission’s powers relating to alternative dispute resolution7

4.1

Section 48G of the PDPA sets out the Commission’s powers in relation to the
resolution of complaints. These include:
4.1.1 Under section 48G(1) of the PDPA, if the Commission is of the opinion that any
complaint by an individual against an organisation may be more appropriately
resolved by mediation, the Commission may, without the consent of the
complainant and the organisation, refer the matter to mediation under a
dispute resolution scheme.
4.1.2 Under section 48G(2) of the PDPA, the Commission may direct a complainant
or an organisation or both to attempt to resolve the complaint of the individual
in the way directed by the Commission.8

4.2

The PDPA generally recognises that a complainant and an organisation may resolve
the issues in a complaint by negotiation, mediation or other modes of dispute
settlement. Where the complainant and the organisation are able to resolve the issues
in a complaint and reach an agreement on the matter including, for example, any
actions to be taken by the organisation to address the complaint, the Commission will
consider the agreement reached in determining whether to take any further
enforcement action. In particular, the PDPA provides that the Commission may
suspend, discontinue or refuse to conduct an investigation where the parties involved
(that is, the complainant and the organisation) mutually agree to settle the matter
(among other situations).9

4.3

It should be noted that the Commission’s powers in relation to alternative dispute
resolution do not include deciding on disputes between a complainant and an
organisation or ordering an organisation to compensate a complainant. The PDPA
provides that individuals who suffer loss or damage as a direct result of a
contravention of Part 4, 5, 6, 6A, 6B, Division 3 of Part 9 or 9A of the PDPA may
commence civil proceedings in the courts against the organisation. This is referred to
in the PDPA as a right of private action.10

7

Section 48G of the PDPA is entitled “Alternative dispute resolution”. This term generally refers to various
processes for resolving disputes that are typically regarded as “alternatives” to civil proceedings in the courts.
These may include, for example, negotiation, mediation, conciliation and arbitration.
8

The Commission’s power under section 48G(2) of the PDPA is subject to 48G(1) of the PDPA and hence would
not apply in relation to cases where the Commission is of the view that a matter may be resolved by mediation.
9

See PDPA, section 50(3).

10

See PDPA, section 48O. For more information on the right of private action, please refer to section 36 of these
Guidelines.

7

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

5.

Commission’s approach to resolving complaints

5.1

Upon receiving a complaint11, the Commission will first consider whether it may be
more appropriately resolved by adopting some or all of the measures described in
section 6 of these Guidelines. Where the Commission receives a query or other
information concerning an organisation’s compliance with the PDPA, the Commission
may also, in appropriate cases, adopt some or all of the measures described in section
6 of these Guidelines to encourage the organisation to take the appropriate action to
address the issues raised and ensure its compliance.

5.2

In considering whether to take any of the measures described in section 6 of these
Guidelines, the Commission will generally consider the following factors:
5.2.1 whether, in the Commission’s view, the issues in the complaint (including the
conduct of the organisation that is the subject of the complaint):
(a)

relate solely to the complainant (or whether other individuals may be
affected by the organisation’s conduct in question); or

(b)

may be more effectively resolved through discussions between the
complainant and the organisation;

5.2.2 whether the remedies or other corrective action preferred by the complainant:
(a)

are within the Commission’s powers; or

(b)

may be voluntarily provided by the organisation; and

5.2.3 whether the organisation concerned has the required policies and processes
in place to address complaints.
5.3

In the event the complaint is subsequently resolved, the Commission will generally not
proceed with an investigation unless the circumstances are such that, in the
Commission’s view, an investigation is warranted. For more information on the
Commission’s considerations in this regard, please refer to section 16 of these
Guidelines.

11

This may include an application for a review in relation to an organisation’s obligations under section 21 or 22
of the PDPA.

8

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

6.

Measures to facilitate resolution of a complaint

6.1

Where appropriate, the Commission may, take any or all of the following measures
when seeking to facilitate the resolution of a complaint.
6.1.1 Encouraging self-resolution
The Commission encourages individuals who have a concern with an
organisation’s conduct with respect to their personal data to first approach the
organisation, clarify the reasons for the organisation’s conduct12 and seek an
appropriate resolution of the matter. This is especially important in cases
where an individual may be unclear as to an organisation’s data protection
policies or specific aspects of the organisation’s collection, use or disclosure of
his personal data. In such situations, the Commission notes that the individual
would be best placed to clarify the matter with the organisation concerned.
For example, the mere fact that an individual has not consented to the use of
his personal data by an organisation does not indicate that the organisation
has breached the PDPA. This is because there are a number of situations where
an organisation is permitted to use an individual’s personal data without his
consent under the PDPA13.
In addition, where an organisation is using an individual’s personal data in
accordance with the PDPA and the individual would like the organisation to
stop using his personal data, the individual will have to give reasonable notice
to the organisation to withdraw his consent. The Commission cannot withdraw
consent on behalf of the individual.
6.1.2 Referring a complaint to an organisation
The Commission also encourages organisations to deal directly with a
complainant’s concerns in an appropriate manner. Hence, another basic step
that the Commission may take is to refer a complaint to the organisation (for
example, through its data protection officer).
When referring an individual’s complaint to an organisation, the Commission
will generally forward a copy of the complaint and disclose the individual’s
identity to the organisation so that the organisation is better able to address
the complainant’s concerns.

12

To assist individuals in contacting organisations about their concerns, individuals may wish to refer to the
template letter at http://www.pdpc.gov.sg/individuals/complaints-and-reviews/report-a-personal-dataprotection-concern as a guide.
13

For example, see the situations set out in the First Schedule to the PDPA.

9

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

6.1.3 Facilitating resolution
Where the Commission has referred a complaint to an organisation, the
Commission will generally monitor the progress of discussions between the
complainant and the organisation. If necessary, the Commission may facilitate
the resolution of the complaint. For example, the Commission may request the
data protection officer of the organisation (or such other appropriate
representative of the organisation) to meet with or contact the complainant
with or without a member of the Commission to discuss the complainant’s
concerns.
6.1.4 Referring a complaint to mediation
If a complainant and an organisation are unable to resolve the matter directly
or through the Commission’s facilitation attempt(s), the Commission may refer
the matter for mediation.
Currently, the Commission refers unresolved data protection disputes to either
the Consumers Association of Singapore (“CASE”) or the Singapore Mediation
Centre (“SMC”) for mediation. This is done via established understandings with
CASE and SMC to make available mediation services to assist with the
resolution of data protection-related complaints14. If the complainant and the
organisation so agree, they are free to independently approach CASE, SMC, or
any other alternative dispute resolution service provider, to resolve the
complaint without first coming to the Commission. It is not necessary for
parties to approach the Commission in order to refer the matter to mediation.
The Commission will be establishing a dispute resolution scheme under section
48G of the PDPA. Regulations pursuant to section 48G(4) of the PDPA may be
issued in the future to prescribe matters pertaining to the operation of such
schemes. Once established, the Commission may, without the parties’
consent, refer the matter for mediation under such a dispute resolution
scheme pursuant to section 48G(1) of the PDPA.
6.1.5 Directing the parties to attempt to resolve the complaint
In certain situations, the Commission may, pursuant to section 48G(2) of the
PDPA, direct the complainant, the organisation, or both, to attempt to resolve
the complainant’s complaint in the manner directed by the Commission.
Before making such a direction, the Commission may consider the manner in
which the complaint may be more appropriately or more expeditiously
resolved.

14

Further details are available on the Commission’s website at https://www.pdpc.gov.sg/complaints-andreviews/mediation

10

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

For example, if a complaint arises from a broader contractual dispute between
a complainant and an organisation and the contract between the parties
requires them to submit disputes to arbitration, the Commission may consider
whether to direct the parties to resolve their dispute (insofar as it relates to
the individual’s complaint) via arbitration.
Where the Commission issues a direction under section 48G(2) of the PDPA,
the complainant or the organisation concerned may apply for the Commission
to reconsider its direction under section 48N of the PDPA and may also appeal
against the direction under section 48Q of the PDPA. For more information on
applying for reconsideration, please refer to Part VIII of these Guidelines.

11

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART III: REVIEWS
7.

Commission’s power to review

7.1

Section 48H of the PDPA sets out the Commission’s powers in relation to the conduct
of a review. In particular, section 48H(1) of the PDPA provides that the Commission
may, on the application of an individual (referred to below and in the Enforcement
Regulations as the applicant),15 review the following matters:
7.1.1 an organisation’s refusal to provide access to personal data requested by the
applicant in a request under section 21 of the PDPA (an “access request”), or a
failure to provide such access within a reasonable time;
7.1.2 an organisation’s refusal to correct personal data requested by the applicant
in a request under section 22 of the PDPA (a “correction request”), or a failure
to make such a correction within a reasonable time; or
7.1.3 a fee required by an organisation from the applicant in relation to the
applicant’s access request or a correction request.

7.2

Under the PDPA, organisations are required to provide access to, and correct, an
individual’s personal data that is within their possession or control upon request by
the individual and in accordance with sections 21 and 22 of the PDPA respectively. An
organisation’s obligations under sections 21 and 22 of the PDPA are collectively
referred to by the Commission as the “Access and Correction Obligation”. For more
information on the Access and Correction Obligation, please refer to the Key Concepts
Guidelines16.

7.3

Where the Commission receives an application for a review under section 48H of the
PDPA, the Commission will first consider whether the matter may be resolved in the
manner set out in Part II of these Guidelines. The Commission may therefore adopt
some or all of the measures described in Part II before commencing a review. In the
event the matter is resolved in the manner described in Part II, the Commission will
generally not proceed with the review.

15

The term “applicant” is defined in regulation 2 of the Enforcement Regulations as either the complainant
referred to in section 48H of the PDPA (that is, the party who applies for a review) or the individual or
organisation who applies for reconsideration under section 48N of the PDPA. In Part III of these Guidelines,
applicant refers solely to a party who applies for a review under section 48H of the PDPA.
16

http://www.pdpc.gov.sg/resources/advisory-guidelines.

12

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

8.

Applying to the Commission for a review

8.1

An individual who has made an access request or a correction request to an
organisation may apply to the Commission under section 48H(1) of the PDPA for the
Commission to review the organisation’s reply to his request in the following
situations:
8.1.1 where the organisation refuses to give access to personal data or make the
correction requested by the individual and the individual is dissatisfied with
the reasons given by the organisation for its refusal or the organisation does
not give any reasons for its refusal;
8.1.2 the organisation has failed to give access to personal data or make the
correction requested by the individual within a reasonable time;
8.1.3 the organisation requires the individual to pay a fee, or agree to pay a fee,
before it responds to an access request and the fee exceeds what would be
reasonable;17 or
8.1.4 the organisation requires the individual to pay a fee, or agree to pay a fee,
before it responds to a correction request.18
For more information on how to make an access request or a correction request to an
organisation, please refer to the section on “The Access and Correction Obligation” in
the Key Concept Guidelines.
Matters to note before applying to the Commission for a review

8.2

Before applying to the Commission for a review, individuals should note and, if
necessary, clarify the following with the organisation concerned as this would likely
facilitate a quicker resolution of any dispute or issues of concern they may have with
the organisation:
8.2.1 Reasons for the organisation’s refusal to provide access to personal data or
make a correction requested
The PDPA sets out a number of situations in which an organisation is not
required to provide personal data requested by an individual under section 21

17

Individuals may apply for a review before or after paying any such fee. However, in the event the fee is not
paid, the organisation is not required to provide access to the personal data requested by the individual unless
the Commission disallows the organisation from charging the fee upon completion of the review. Please also
note that the Commission may not review a fee that has been paid if a significant period has passed since the
fee was paid.
18

Individuals may apply for a review before or after paying any such fee. However, please note that the
Commission may not review a fee that has been paid if a significant period has passed since the fee was paid.

13

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

of the PDPA19 (for example, where provision of the requested personal data
could threaten the safety or physical or mental health of another individual),
or make a correction requested by an individual under section 22 of the PDPA20
(for example, where the correction request is in respect of any examination
conducted by an education institution, examination scripts, and, (prior to their
release) examination results). Subject to the PDPA and the PDP Regulations,21
organisations are required to provide a reply to the individual even if they
refuse to provide the personal data or make the correction requested by the
individual. In such situations, the PDPC would strongly encourage
organisations to provide the reason(s) for their decision to refuse the
individual’s request so that the individual is aware of and understands their
reason(s).
If an individual is unclear as to the reasons for an organisation’s refusal to
provide access to personal data or make the correction requested, or the
organisation has not communicated its reasons to the individual, the individual
should first clarify this directly with the organisation.
8.2.2 Timing of the organisation’s response in complying with the access and
correction requirement
The PDPA generally requires organisations to provide the personal data, or
make the correction, requested by an individual under sections 21 or 22 of the
PDPA as soon as reasonably possible. In addition, if the organisation is unable
to provide the personal data or make the correction requested within 30 days
after receiving the request, the organisation must inform the individual, in
writing, within 30 days, of the time by which it will respond to the individual’s
access or correction request.22
If an individual has not heard from an organisation within 30 days of his access
request or correction request, he should confirm with the organisation that it
has received his request and clarify with the organisation on the time frame
within which it will reply to the request.23
Where an organisation has specified the period within which it will respond to
the individual’s access request or correction request, the individual should not
apply for a review until the specified period has expired or the circumstances
are such that the period specified by the organisation exceeds what would be
19

See PDPA, section 21 (2), (3) and (4) and Fifth Schedule.

20

See PDPA, section 22 (2), (4), (6) and (7) and Sixth Schedule.

21

See PDPA, section 21 (4) and PDP Regulations, regulation 6.

22

See PDP Regulations, regulation 5.

23

If the circumstances are clear such that a reasonable period is less than 30 days, the individual may similarly
check with the organisation after the expiry of that period if he has not received any reply from the organisation
by then.

14

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

a reasonable period. Individuals may also wish to check with the organisation
if there has been any delay, whether due to any unforeseen circumstances or
other reasons, such that the organisation may require additional time in order
to respond to their request.
8.2.3 Fee required by an organisation
The PDP Regulations permit organisations to charge a reasonable fee for
services provided to fulfil an access request so that the organisation can
recover the incremental costs of responding to the request.
An organisation that wishes to charge such a fee must provide a written
estimate of the fee to the individual and is not required24 to provide the
personal data requested until the individual agrees to pay the fee.25 The final
fee chargeable should thereafter be communicated to the individual so that
payment for the provision of the personal data may be made. Organisations
may not charge a fee in relation to fulfilling a correction request.26
Individuals should note that where a fee is levied, it may exceed the cost of
producing a copy of the document containing the personal data, as such fee
may include other incremental costs to reflect the time and effort required to
respond to the request.
Submitting a review application to the Commission
8.3

When submitting a review application to the Commission, the review application
should include the following information:
8.3.1 the reasons for making the application (for example, failure of the organisation
to provide the personal data requested within a reasonable time);
8.3.2 a copy of the access or correction request submitted to the organisation (if
that is not available, the applicant should provide a clear description of the
personal data which he had requested access to, or the correction he had
requested for);
8.3.3 a copy of the organisation’s reply to the access or correction request, including
any interim replies;

24

Organisations may, if they so decide, provide the personal data requested even if the fee has not yet been
paid by the individual. However, any agreement between the individual and the organisation under which the
individual is required to pay the fee for the personal data provided by the organisation pursuant to the
individual’s access request is subject to any decision by the Commission under section 48H(2) of the PDPA in the
event the individual applies to the Commission for a review of the fee under section 48H(1) of the PDPA.
25

See PDP Regulations, regulation 7(1) to (3).

26

See PDP Regulations, regulation 7(4).

15

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

8.3.4 a copy of all other correspondence between the applicant and the organisation
relating to the access or correction request (for example, correspondence
clarifying the reasons for the organisation’s reply); and
8.3.5 the facts and circumstances of the key events that took place in relation to the
submission of the applicant’s access or correction request.
An application for review may also be made by submitting a duly completed form as
set out on the Commission’s website and including the information and copies of
documents specified in the form.
8.4

Review applications may be submitted by post, by email or in person to the
Commission.

9.

Procedure during a review

9.1

The procedures that the Commission will adopt in a review under section 48H(1) of
the PDPA are set out in Part 2 of the Enforcement Regulations and described in brief
below.
Serving a copy of the review application to the organisation concerned

9.2

If satisfied that the application filed by the applicant discloses a prima facie case for
review, the Commission will:
9.2.1 serve a copy of the review application and any accompanying documents on
the organisation concerned (referred to in the Enforcement Regulations as the
“respondent”); and
9.2.2 require the respondent to submit, within a period specified by the
Commission, a response setting out the respondent’s explanation to the
matters or issues raised in the complaint and any other information or
document required by the Commission27.
Submission of a response by the respondent

9.3

27

In most cases, respondents will be required to submit a response within 14 days of the
date of the notice of review application. The respondent may apply to the Commission
in writing for an extension of the time frame for submission of the response, subject
to the Commission’s approval of such request for extension of time. In general, the
Commission will give the respondent a reasonable period, taking into account the
scope of the applicant’s application and the issues raised therein, to submit the
response.

See the Enforcement Regulations, regulation 6(1).

16

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

9.3.1 The respondent shall submit its response in accordance with the Enforcement
Regulations.28 Amongst other requirements, each response must be made in
writing, signed by the respondent or an authorised representative of the
respondent and contain all relevant information and documents that the
respondent wishes to refer to or rely upon in its response.
9.3.2 If the respondent fails to submit a response within the time frame specified by
the Commission in its notice (including any extension thereof granted by the
Commission), the Commission may either:
(a)

proceed to make its decision based on the information and documents
obtained by the Commission during the review (including any
additional information and documents obtained by the Commission
pursuant to its powers);29 or

(b)

commence an investigation into the conduct of the organisation (in
which case, the Commission may suspend the review pending the
outcome of the investigation).30

9.3.3 The respondent should inform the Commission if the response contains
information the respondent considers to be confidential, and provide a written
statement giving reasons why the information is confidential. The Commission
will give due consideration to these reasons when deciding whether to grant
confidential treatment.
Inviting the applicant to submit a reply to the organisation’s response to the review
application
9.4

Where the respondent submits a response, the Commission may, where it considers
it appropriate:
(a)

serve a copy of the response on the applicant; and

(b)

invite the applicant to submit to the Commission, within a period specified by
the Commission, a written reply to the respondent’s response as the applicant
may wish to give.31

9.4.1 In considering whether to serve a copy of the organisation’s response to the
applicant, the Commission would consider all relevant factors, including but
not limited to the fact that the response could contain information about the
28

See the Enforcement Regulations, regulation 6(2).

29

See section 10 of these Guidelines.

30

See paragraph 12.1 of these Guidelines.

31

For the avoidance of doubt, the applicant is not required to submit a reply if he does not wish to provide any
reply to the respondent’s response. The applicant may choose to inform the Commission in writing at any time
with the period specified by the Commission if he does not wish to submit a reply.

17

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

organisation’s internal policies or practices. Respondents should note that the
Commission will generally invite the applicant to submit a reply if the response
raises issues relating to the applicant (e.g., the applicant’s conduct).
9.4.2 In general, where the Commission invites the applicant to submit a reply, the
Commission will give the applicant a reasonable time frame, taking into
account the issues raised in the respondent’s response, to submit the reply. In
most cases, the time frame may be within 14 days for submission of the reply.
The applicant may apply to the Commission in writing for an extension of the
time frame for submission of the reply, subject to the Commission’s approval
of such request for extension of time.
9.4.3 Where the applicant wishes to submit a reply, the applicant shall submit his
written reply in accordance with the Enforcement Regulations32. Amongst
other requirements, each reply must be made in writing, signed by the
applicant or his authorised representative and contain all relevant information
and documents that the applicant wishes to refer to or rely upon in his reply.
Seeking further information or clarifications from the applicant or respondent
9.5

The Commission may, at any stage of the review, seek further information,
clarifications or documents from either the applicant or the respondent. The
Commission may also exercise the powers described in section 10 of these Guidelines
to obtain additional information and documents for the purposes of the review from
the applicant or the respondent.

9.6

Upon receiving the respondent’s response, any reply submitted by the applicant
(where applicable) within the time frame specified by the Commission (including any
extension thereof granted by the Commission), and any additional information
obtained during the review, the Commission shall make its decision on the matters
and issues raised in the application.

9.7

After making its decision or direction under section 48H(2) of the PDPA upon a review
application, the Commission will give notice of the decision or direction to the
applicant and the respondent. Section 14 of these Guidelines describes the decisions
and directions that a Commission may make upon the completion of a review. The
Commission may also publish the decision or a summary of the decision as described
in Part VII of these Guidelines.

32

See the Enforcement Regulations, regulation 7(2).

18

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

10.

Summary dismissal of review application

10.1

The Commission may, at any time, dismiss a review application in the circumstances
set out in Regulation 5 of the Enforcement Regulations:
10.1.1 the Commission considers that the application does not disclose any prima
facie case for a review under section 48H(1) of the PDPA based on the
information disclosed in the application;33
10.1.2 the Commission has referred the matter to mediation under a dispute
resolution scheme under section 48G(1) of the PDPA;
10.1.3 the Commission has issued a direction to the applicant under section 48G(2)
of the PDPA and the applicant has not complied with the direction;
10.1.4 the applicant and the organisation have mutually agreed to settle the matter;
10.1.5 the applicant has commenced legal proceedings against the organisation in
respect of a contravention or alleged contravention of the PDPA by the
organisation, which is the subject of the application;
10.1.6 the review application is not made in accordance with regulation 4(1) or is
materially incomplete;
10.1.7 the applicant has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with the time
specified in a written notice under regulation 4(3) of the Enforcement
Regulations for the submission of any document or information required under
the notice; or
10.1.8 the Commission is of the opinion that —

10.2

(a)

the application is frivolous or vexatious or is not made in good faith; or

(b)

any other circumstances warrant dismissing the application.

Without limitation to the foregoing, the Commission may dismiss an application for a
review that is made within the following time frames:
10.2.1 30 days of the date on which the access request or correction request was
made by the individual to the organisation; or
10.2.2 the time frame specified by the organisation to the applicant as the soonest
possible time it can provide access or make the correction (if any),

33

This may include (without limitation) situations where an applicant has not yet made an access request or a
correction request to the organisation or where the application does not otherwise disclose a matter that the
Commission may review under section 48H(1) of the PDPA.

19

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

unless the circumstances are such that it would be reasonable for the organisation to
have provided the personal data or made the correction within a shorter time frame.

11.

Commission’s powers when conducting a review application

11.1

The Commission may exercise the following powers under the Enforcement
Regulations when conducting a review:
11.1.1 the power to require production of documents and information; and
11.1.2 the power to require an applicant or a respondent to furnish a statutory
declaration.34

11.2

The following paragraphs describe these powers in brief:
11.2.1 Power to require production of documents and information
The Commission may, at any time by notice in writing, require the applicant to
produce any document or information to support the facts or particulars
contained in the applicant’s application for a review or reply to the
respondent’s response. The Commission’s notice will specify the document or
information, or the category of documents or information, which the applicant
or respondent is required to provide and the time within which the document
or information is to be provided to the Commission.
The Commission may similarly require the respondent to produce any
document or information to support the facts or particulars contained in the
respondent’s response to the applicant’s application.
11.2.2 Power to require an applicant or a respondent to furnish a statutory
declaration
The Commission may, at any time by notice in writing, require the applicant to
provide, within such time as may be specified in the notice, a statutory
declaration to support the facts or particulars in the applicant’s application for
a review or reply.
The Commission may similarly require the respondent to provide a statutory
declaration to support the facts or particulars in the respondent’s response.

34

See Enforcement Regulations, regulations 4(3), 6(3) and 7(3).

20

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

12.

Suspension of a review

12.1

The Commission may suspend a review at any stage of the review in the circumstances
set out in regulation 9 of the Enforcement Regulations. These circumstances are:
12.1.1 the Commission commences an investigation under section 50(1) of the PDPA
into the conduct of the respondent that is the subject of the applicant’s
application for a review; or
12.1.2 the Commission is of the opinion that any other circumstances warrant
suspending the review.

13.

Withdrawal of review application

13.1

An applicant may withdraw his application for a review at any time before the
Commission gives notice of its decision or direction35, by way of notice in writing to
the Commission. In such an event, the Commission will terminate the review.

14.

Commission’s decisions and directions following a review

14.1

Section 48H(2) of the PDPA provides that the Commission may, upon the completion
of a review:
14.1.1 confirm the respondent’s refusal to provide access to the personal data, or
direct the respondent to provide access to the personal data, within such time
as the Commission may specify;
14.1.2 confirm the respondent’s refusal to correct the personal data, or direct the
respondent to correct the personal data, in such manner and within such time
as the Commission may specify; or
14.1.3 confirm, reduce or disallow a fee, or direct the respondent to make a refund
to the applicant.

14.2

Where the Commission makes a direction against the respondent under section
48H(2) of the PDPA and the respondent fails to comply with the direction, the
Commission may issue a further direction against the respondent under section 48I(1)
or (2) of the PDPA. This may include (without limitation) a direction to comply with the
Commission’s direction under section 48H(2) of the PDPA.

14.3

The Commission is empowered under section 48M of the PDPA to enforce its
directions by registering them in the District Court. Please refer to section 27 of these
Guidelines for more information on the enforcement of the Commission’s directions.

35

See the Enforcement Regulations, regulation 8.

21

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

Examples
(A)

An organisation did not provide access to personal data requested by an
individual more than 30 days after receiving the request, and did not inform
the individual within 30 days of the time36 by which it will be able to respond
to the request.
The individual submits a review application on the grounds that the
organisation has failed to provide access to the personal data requested.
The individual explained in the application that the organisation has failed
to respond to his request within 30 days, and also did not inform him of the
time frame by which it will be able to respond within 30 days. His application
also stated the remedy he is seeking, which in this case is for the
organisation to provide him the personal data requested.
Upon completion of a review, the Commission finds that the organisation
should provide the personal data requested and directs the organisation to
provide access.

(B)

An individual submits a request to an organisation to access his personal
data in its possession and pays a fee for this request. The individual
compares the fees required by a number of other organisations within the
same industry to fulfil similar access requests and finds out that he has been
charged a fee that is more than ten-times higher.
The individual makes an application to the Commission to review the fee
paid. He states in his application that the outcome he seeks is for the
Commission to direct the organisation to refund part of the fee paid.
Upon completion of a review, the Commission finds that the fee charged
was not reasonable as it included costs incurred for capital purchases and
directs the organisation to refund part of the fee.

15.

Commencing an investigation related to a review

15.1

The Commission may, in certain situations, commence an investigation in relation to
an organisation’s compliance with section 21 or 22 of the PDPA prior to or during a
review. These situations may include (without limitation):

36

Organisations are reminded of the requirement to respond to an access request as soon as reasonably possible
under section 21(1) and to make a correction as soon as practicable under section 22(2).

22

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

15.1.1 where the organisation does not comply with the Enforcement Regulations
during the review including, in particular, the Commission’s notices
thereunder;37 and
15.1.2 where the Commission receives multiple applications for a review against the
organisation, or applications for a review and information from other sources,
and the information obtained by the Commission through the applications or
other sources indicates that the organisation may not be in compliance with
the Access and Correction Obligation.
In most cases, the Commission will suspend any ongoing review if it commences an
investigation into the conduct of an organisation that is the subject of the review.
15.2

37

In general, the Commission will not commence an investigation into an organisation’s
compliance with section 21 or 22 of the PDPA after completion of a review unless
there appears to the Commission to be a significant non-compliance with section 21
or 22 of the PDPA or there are other exceptional circumstances. Please refer to section
15 of these Guidelines for more information on when the Commission may commence
an investigation.

See paragraph 10.2.

23

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART IV: INVESTIGATIONS
16.

Circumstances under which the Commission may commence an
investigation

16.1

Section 50 of the PDPA sets out the Commission’s powers of investigation in respect
of contraventions of the PDPA. In general, the Commission may commence an
investigation either upon receiving a complaint from an individual against an
organisation or of its own motion.

16.2

Where the Commission receives a complaint or other information that indicates that
an organisation has, or may have, contravened the PDPA, the Commission will first
consider whether the matter may be more appropriately resolved in the manner set
out in Part II of these Guidelines, that is, by resolving the underlying dispute between
the complainant and the organisation. If so, the Commission may adopt the measures
described in Part II before deciding whether to commence an investigation. In
addition, where a complaint relates to a matter that may be reviewed by the
Commission under section 48H(1) of the PDPA (i.e. a refusal to provide access to or
correct personal data; fees required in relation to access or correction requests; or a
failure to provide access or correction within a reasonable time), the Commission will
generally conduct a review instead of an investigation. In such circumstances, the
Commission may proceed on the complainant’s complaint as if it was an application
for a review or it may require the complainant to submit an application for a review.

16.3

The Commission may commence an investigation into the conduct of an organisation
if the Commission considers that an investigation is warranted, based on the
information it has obtained (whether through a complaint or from any other source).
In deciding whether to commence an investigation, the Commission will generally
consider whether any of the following factors indicate that an investigation should be
conducted:
(a)

whether the organisation may have failed to comply, whether intentionally,
negligently or for any other reason or cause, with all or a significant part of its
obligations under the PDPA;

(b)

whether the organisation’s conduct38 indicates a systemic failure by the
organisation to comply with the PDPA or to establish and maintain the
necessary policies and procedures to ensure its compliance;

(c)

the number of individuals who are, or may be, affected by the organisation’s
conduct;

38

In this paragraph, references to the organisation’s conduct generally refer to the conduct that is the subject
of the information obtained by the Commission.

24

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

16.4

(d)

the impact of the organisation’s conduct on the complainant or any individual
who may be affected including, for example, whether the complainant or
affected individual(s) may have suffered a loss, injury or other damage as a
result of the organisation’s contravention of the PDPA or whether they may
have been exposed to a significant risk that they may suffer such a loss, injury
or damage;

(e)

whether the organisation had previously contravened the PDPA or may have
failed to implement the necessary corrective measures to prevent the
recurrence of a previous contravention;

(f)

where the complainant had previously approached the organisation to seek a
resolution of the issues in the complainant but failed to reach a resolution;

(g)

where the Commission has sought to facilitate dispute resolution between the
complainant and the organisation, whether the complainant and the
organisation agreed to participate in the dispute resolution process, their
conduct during the dispute resolution process and the outcome of the dispute
resolution process;

(h)

where a review has been commenced by the Commission, whether the
organisation has complied with its obligations under the Enforcement
Regulations in relation to a review, the organisation’s conduct during the
review and the outcome of the review;

(i)

the public interest; and

(j)

any other factor that, in the Commission’s view, indicates that an investigation
should or should not be commenced.

In addition, section 50(3) of the PDPA lists some situations in which the Commission
may refuse to conduct an investigation. These include (amongst others) situations
where:
(a)

the Commission has issued a direction under section 48G(2) of the PDPA to a
complainant to attempt to resolve the complaint in the way directed by the
Commission and the complainant has not complied with the direction;

(b)

the parties have mutually agreed to settle the matter;

(c)

the complainant has commenced legal proceedings against the organisation in
respect of the contravention or alleged contravention of the PDPA by the
organisation;

(d)

the Commission accepts a voluntary undertaking given by an organisation or a
person under section 48L(1) of the PDPA in relation to the matter; or

25

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

(e)

the Commission is of the opinion that:
(i)

the complaint is frivolous or vexatious or is not made in good faith; or

(ii)

any other circumstances warrant refusing to conduct an investigation.

16.5

For the avoidance of doubt, the Commission may commence an investigation
notwithstanding that the complainant and the organisation have resolved the issues
in the complaint or that the complaint is withdrawn by the complainant if there are
other factors that indicate, in the Commission’s view, that an investigation should be
conducted. These may include (without limitation) the factors noted in paragraph 16.3
(a) to (j) above.

16.6

Where the Commission has conducted a review under section 48H of the PDPA and
made a decision or issued a direction under section 48H(2) of the PDPA, the
Commission will generally not commence an investigation in relation to the
organisation’s compliance with section 21 or 22 of the PDPA unless there appears to
the Commission to be a significant non-compliance with section 21 or 22 of the PDPA
or there are exceptional circumstances which, in the Commission’s view, indicate that
an investigation should be commenced. For this purpose, a significant non-compliance
with section 21 or 22 of the PDPA may include the following:

16.7

(a)

systemic failure on the part of the organisation including (without limitation)
where an organisation does not have any processes in place to comply with
section 21 or 22 of the PDPA; or

(b)

intentional non-compliance with section 21 or 22 of the PDPA or a decision or
direction under section 48H(2) of the PDPA, for example, where an
organisation has sought, through its processes, to deny individuals’ requests
for reasons that are not permitted under the PDPA.

The Commission may, in certain circumstances, commence an investigation of its own
motion. This may include (without limitation) situations where the Commission
receives information concerning the conduct of an organisation. In such situations, the
Commission may, if it considers it appropriate, proceed with an investigation of its
own motion based on the information received.

26

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

17.

Making a complaint to the Commission

17.1

A complaint concerning a contravention or possible contravention of the PDPA may
be made to the Commission by providing the relevant information and, where
applicable, copies of documents supporting the complaint. A complainant may also
use the form provided on the Commission’s website to assist him in lodging the
complaint.

17.2

As a complaint may result in formal action being taken by the Commission against an
organisation that has infringed the PDPA, complainants should note that they may be
required to give a formal statement and appear before the Commission in relation to
the statement or other matters within their knowledge.

18.

Commission’s powers of investigation

18.1

The Commission’s powers of investigation are set out in the Ninth Schedule to the
PDPA. In brief, these include:
18.1.1 the power to require production of documents and information39;
18.1.2 the power to require the attendance of persons, and to orally examine and
take statements from them40 ;
18.1.3 the power to enter premises without a warrant;41 and
18.1.4 the power to enter premises with a warrant.42
These powers are further described in the following sections of these Guidelines.

18.2

In general, the Commission may use its powers of investigation to obtain from any
organisation (including organisations that are not the subject of the Commission’s
investigation) any information that the Commission considers relates to any matter
relevant to an investigation. The Commission’s powers of investigation may also be
exercised by an inspector appointed by the Commission.

18.3

All organisations and individuals are required to comply with any notice or other
requirement imposed by the Commission pursuant to its powers of investigations
(described further in the following paragraphs). In this regard, any individual who
obstructs or impedes the Commission in the exercise of its powers, or who knowingly
or recklessly makes a false statement to the Commission, or who knowingly attempts

39

See paragraphs 1 and 1A(1)(a) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

40

See paragraphs 1A(1)(b) and (c) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

41

See paragraph 2 of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

42

See paragraph 3 of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

27

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

to mislead the Commission, shall be guilty of an offence under the PDPA and is liable,
upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both. Organisations that are found to have committed such
an offence are liable to a fine not exceeding $100,000.43 Further, any individual who,
without reasonable excuse, neglects or refuses to provide any information or produce
any document to the Commission or attend before the Commission, shall be guilty of
an offence under the PDPA and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.
Organisations that are found to have committed such an offence are liable to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.44

19.

Power to require production of documents and information

19.1

Under paragraph 1 of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA, the Commission may, by notice
in writing to any organisation, require the organisation to produce any document or
information which the Commission considers relates to any matter relevant to an
investigation.

19.2

The term “document” includes “information recorded in any form”. This definition
includes records stored in any form, electronic or otherwise, for example, on a
computer.

19.3

A notice issued by the Commission under paragraph 1 of the Ninth Schedule shall:
19.3.1 specify the document or information, or the category of documents or
information,45 which the organisation is required to produce; and
19.3.2 indicate the purpose for which the specified document or specified
information is required by the Commission.

19.4

Such a notice may also:
19.4.1 specify the time and place at which any document or information is to be
produced or provided to the Commission;
19.4.2 specify the manner and form in which any document or information is to be
produced or provided;
19.4.3 require the organisation, or any past or present officer or employee of the
organisation, to provide an explanation of the document; and

43

See PDPA, section 51 (3)(b) and (c) and (5).

44

See PDPA, section 51 (3)(ba) and (bb) and (6).

45

See paragraph 1(5) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

28

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

19.4.4 if the document is not produced, require the organisation or any past or
present officer or employee of the organisation to state, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, where it is.
19.5

Under paragraph 1(4) of the Ninth Schedule, the Commission is empowered to take
copies of or extracts from any document that is produced pursuant to its notice.

19.6

The Commission may issue a notice under paragraph 1 of the Ninth Schedule to any
person or entity falling within the definition of the term “organisation” in the PDPA.
This includes any individual (including, without limitation, sole proprietors and
partners of a partnership), company, association or body of persons, corporate or
unincorporated.46 As noted above, this may also include present or past officers or
employees of an organisation, including volunteers and persons who are or were
working under an unpaid volunteer relationship) 47.

19.7

The Commission may also issue a written notice to any person to produce any
information or document believed to be in their custody or control which is relevant
to an investigation. The information or document must be provided within the time
and in the manner specified in the notice48.

19.8

All individuals, companies, associations or other bodies of persons to whom such a
notice is issued are required to comply with the notice.49

19.9

A person or organisation may receive multiple notices requiring the production of
documents or information during the course of an investigation. For example, an
organisation may be required to produce further information or documents after
consideration of the documents produced in response to an earlier notice.

20.

Power to require attendance of persons, and to orally examine and take
statements

20.1

The Commission may by written notice, require any person within Singapore, who
appears to be acquainted with the facts or circumstances of a matter pertaining to an
investigation, to attend before the Commission50.

46

See PDPA, section 2(1).

47

See PDPA, section 2(1).

48

See paragraph 1A(1)(a) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

49

Please refer to paragraph 18.3 of these Guidelines concerning offences under the PDPA.

50

See Paragraph 1A(1)(b) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

29

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

20.2

The Commission may also orally examine any person who appears to be acquainted
with the facts or circumstances of the matter51. A statement made by any person so
examined will be:
20.2.1 reduced to writing;
20.2.2 read over to the person;
20.2.3 interpreted to him in a language that the person understands (if the person
does not understand English; and
20.2.4 after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person52.

21.

Power to enter premises without a warrant

21.1

Under paragraph 2 of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA, the Commission is empowered
to enter premises without a warrant in connection with an investigation. Depending
on the circumstances, entry may be effected with or without giving the occupier of
the premises prior notice of the intended entry.

21.2

An inspector appointed by the Commission (and any other persons he may require to
assist him) may, in connection with any investigation, enter any premises after giving
the occupier of the premises a written notice which:
21.2.1 gives at least 2 working days’ notice of the intended entry; and
21.2.2 indicates the subject matter and purpose of the investigation.

21.3

If the inspector has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to give such
written notice but has not been able to do so, he (or any person assisting him) may
enter the premises if he has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the premises are,
or have been, occupied by an organisation which is being investigated in relation to a
contravention of the PDPA. In such cases, the inspector must produce:
21.3.1 evidence of his appointment; and
21.3.2 a document containing the subject matter and purpose of the investigation.

21.4

Upon such entry, the inspector (or any person assisting him) may:
21.4.1 take with him any equipment which appears to him to be necessary;
21.4.2 in relation to any document which he considers relates to any matter relevant
to the investigation:

51

See Paragraph 1A(1)(c) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

52

See Paragraph 1A(3) of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA.

30

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

22.

(a)

require any person on the premises to produce the document and
provide an explanation of it (if produced);

(b)

require any person to state, to the best of his knowledge and belief,
where the document may be found;

(c)

take copies of, or extracts from, any document which is produced;

(d)

take any step which appears to be necessary for the purpose of
preserving or preventing interference with the document; and

(e)

require any information which is stored in any electronic form and is
accessible from the premises and which he considers relates to any
matter relevant to the investigation, to be produced in a visible and
legible form, which can be taken away.

Power to enter premises with a warrant
Conditions for issuance of warrant

22.1

Under paragraph 3 of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA, the Commission is empowered
to enter and search premises without prior notice, upon production of a warrant.

22.2

Paragraph 3 of the Ninth Schedule to the PDPA identifies three circumstances in which
a court may issue a warrant to authorise an inspector appointed by the Commission
(and any other persons assisting him) to enter and search the premises specified in
the warrant. The court must be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for
suspecting that there are, on any premises, documents:
22.2.1 which have not been produced, although the Commission has required
production, either by written notice (paragraph 1 of the Ninth Schedule) or in
the course of an inspection without a warrant (paragraph 2 of the Ninth
Schedule);
22.2.2 which would be concealed, removed, tampered with or destroyed if required
to be produced by written notice (paragraph 1 of the Ninth Schedule); or
22.2.3 which an inspector (or any person assisting him) could have required to be
produced in the course of an inspection without a warrant (paragraph 2 of the
Ninth Schedule), but was unable to effect entry into the premises.
Scope of the power

22.3

The warrant will authorise an inspector (and any other persons he may require to
assist him) to do all or any of the following:

31

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

22.3.1 enter the premises using such force as is reasonably necessary;
22.3.2 search any person on those premises if there are reasonable grounds for
believing that that person has in his possession any document, equipment or
article which has a bearing on the investigation;
22.3.3 search the premises and take copies of, or extracts from, any document
appearing to be of the kind in respect of which the warrant was granted (as
described in paragraph 22.2 above);
22.3.4 take possession of any document appearing to be of the kind in respect of
which the warrant was granted if such action appears to be necessary for
preserving the document or preventing interference with it, or if it is not
reasonably practicable to take copies of the document on the premises. Upon
request for a copy of the document by the person from whom possession of
such document was taken, the inspector may provide such copy. Documents
taken may be retained for a period of not more than 3 months;
22.3.5 take any other steps which appear necessary in order to preserve the
documents or prevent interference with them including requiring equipment
and storage facilities to be sealed if necessary;
22.3.6 require any person to provide an explanation of any document appearing to
be of the kind in respect of which the warrant was granted or to state to the
best of his knowledge and belief where such document may be found;
22.3.7 require any information, which is stored in any electronic form and is
accessible from the premises, and which the investigator considers relates to
any matter relevant to the investigation, to be produced in a visible and legible
form which can be taken away; and
22.3.8 remove from the premises for examination any equipment or article which
relates to any matter relevant to the investigation. Where appropriate, the
inspector may, instead of removing from the premises such equipment or
articles, allow them to be retained on the premises subject to conditions.
22.4

In addition, where a warrant is granted to enter premises pursuant to a reasonable
suspicion that, if prior written notice under paragraph 1 of the Ninth Schedule were
given, documents would be concealed, removed, tampered with or destroyed (i.e. in
the circumstances described in paragraph 21.2.2 above), then, if the court is satisfied
that it is reasonable to suspect that there are also other documents on the premises
which relate to the investigation, the warrant will authorise the actions mentioned in
paragraph 21.3 above to be taken in relation to such other documents.

22.5

The inspector entering the premises (and any other persons he may require to assist
him) may take with him any equipment, which appears to him to be necessary.

32

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

23.

Suspension or conclusion of an investigation

23.1

Section 50(3) of the PDPA lists various situations in which the Commission may
suspend or discontinue an investigation. These include the situations described in
[paragraphs 16.4(a) – (e) above.

23.2

Where the Commission proceeds with an investigation, the Commission will consider
the information and evidence it has obtained and determine if an organisation has
contravened the PDPA. The Commission’s powers where it finds an organisation has
contravened the PDPA are set out in the next Part of these Guidelines.

24.

Public communications

24.1

Organisations that intend to issue any media releases or public disclosure of matters
related to the alleged breach are advised to consider whether the content would
hinder the ongoing investigations and to also provide the Commission with a copy of
the materials before their release.

33

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART V: VOLUNTARY UNDERTAKINGS
25.

Power to accept voluntary undertakings

25.1

Where the Commission has reasonable grounds to believe that:
25.1.1 an organisation has not complied, is not complying or is likely not to comply
with any of the provision of Part 3, 4, 5, 6, 6A (“Data Protection Provisions”);
or
25.1.2 a person has not complied, is not complying or is likely not to comply with the
any provision of Part 9 or section 48B(1) (“DNC Provisions”);
instead of carrying out an investigation or issuing directions (but without prejudice to
the Commission’s ability to do so), the Commission may accept a written voluntary
undertaking from the organisation or person concerned53.

25.2

Depending on the circumstances, the voluntary undertaking may include (without
limitation):
25.2.1 an undertaking to take specified action within a specified time (for example,
for the organisation to improve its cyber-defences and/or carry out
penetration testing on its electronic databases);
25.2.2 an undertaking to refrain from taking any action (for example, for the
organisation to stop using personal data collected without consent); and/or
25.2.3 an undertaking to publicise the voluntary undertaking.

25.3

The voluntary undertaking process is intended to allow organisations with good
accountability practices and an effective remediation plan to be given a window of
opportunity to implement their remediation plans.

25.4

The provision of a voluntary undertaking by a person or organisation is subject to the
Commission’s acceptance. For example, the Commission may not accept a voluntary
undertaking in circumstances including but not limited to where the person or
organisation’s non-compliance with the PDPA is wilful or egregious.

25.5

Where an organisation or person fails to comply with any undertaking in a voluntary
undertaking, the Commission may give the organisation or person any direction54 that

53

See Section 48L(1) the PDPA.

54

Section 48K(1), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of the PDPA applies to such direction as if the direction were given
under section 48I.

34

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

the Commission thinks fit in the circumstances to ensure the compliance of the
organisation or person with that undertaking.55
25.6

Further, where the organisation or person fails to comply with its undertaking to
publicise the voluntary undertaking (described in paragraph 25.2.3 above), the
Commission may publicise the voluntary undertaking in accordance with the
undertaking, and recover the costs and expenses incurred as a debt due to the
Commission. In any case, the Commission may publish the voluntary undertaking or a
summary thereof on its website or in any other manner that the Commission considers
appropriate.

55

Further, where the organisation or person fails to comply with its undertaking to publicise the voluntary
undertaking, the Commission may publicise the voluntary undertaking in accordance with the undertaking, and
recover the costs and expenses incurred as a debt due to the Commission.

35

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART VI: DIRECTIONS TO SECURE COMPLIANCE
26.

Power to issue directions to secure compliance

26.1

The Commission’s power to issue directions to secure an organisation’s compliance
with the PDPA is set out in section 48I of the PDPA. In particular:
26.1.1 Section 48(1) of the PDPA provides that the Commission may, if it is satisfied
that an organisation is not complying with any of the Data Protection
Provisions or any person has not complied or is not complying with any of the
DNC Provisions, give the organisation or person (as the case may be) such
directions as the Commission thinks fit in the circumstances to ensure the
organisation’s compliance with that provision.
26.1.2 Section 48I(2) of the PDPA further provides that the Commission may (without
prejudice to section 48I(1) of the PDPA) give an organisation that is not
complying with any Data Protection Provisions, any or all of the following
directions:

26.2

(a)

to stop collecting, using or disclosing personal data in contravention of
the PDPA;

(b)

to destroy personal data collected in contravention of the PDPA; or

(c)

to comply with any direction of the Commission under section 48H(2)
of the PDPA.

In general, the directions that the Commission may give under section 48I of the PDPA
are likely to fall within the following types:
26.2.1 directions to remedy the organisation’s contravention, that is, by requiring the
organisation to take corrective action, for example, by requiring the infringing
organisation to cease its use of personal data collected in contravention of the
PDPA;
26.2.2 directions to prevent or reduce the possibility of harm (or further harm) to
individuals who are (or may be) affected by the organisation’s contravention;
and
directions to rectify an organisation’s processes, for example, by requiring the
infringing organisation to take certain measures so that it will be brought into
compliance with the PDPA.

26.3

In the event an organisation does not comply with a direction under section 48I of the
PDPA, the Commission is empowered under section 48M of the PDPA to enforce the
direction by registering it in the District Court. Please refer to section 29 of these
Guidelines for more information on the enforcement of the Commission’s directions.
36

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

27.

Written Notice to pay financial penalties

27.1

Under Section 48J of the PDPA, the Commission may require an organisation to pay a
financial penalty of up to S$1 million for any intentional or negligent contravention of
the Data Protection Provisions.

27.2

For any intentional or negligent contravention of the DNC Provisions, the Commission
may require payment of a financial penalty of up to S$200,000 in the case of an
individual and up to S$1 million in the case of an organisation.

27.3

On a further date to be notified, and no earlier than 1 February 2022:
27.3.1 The maximum financial penalty prescribed by the PDPA for breach of any of
the Data Protection Provisions56 will be amended to be either S$1 million or
10% of the organisation’s annual turnover in Singapore57, whichever is higher.
27.3.2 The maximum financial penalty prescribed by the PDPA for an organisation’s
breach of the prohibitions on the use of dictionary attacks and addressharvesting software (i.e. under the new section 48B(1) of the PDPA), will be
amended to be either S$1 million or 5% of the organisation’s annual turnover
in Singapore58, whichever is higher.

27.4

The higher financial penalties will be reserved for egregious cases, and the proposed
changes will provide the Commission with more flexibility in meting out financial
penalties based on the circumstances and seriousness of the breach.

27.5

In determining the amount of financial penalty to be imposed, the Commission will
take into account the factors set out at section 48(6) of the PDPA (listed at Table 1
below). This non-exhaustive list provides greater transparency on how the
Commission quantifies the financial penalties to be imposed in enforcement cases.

27.6

Some of the past Commission Decisions59 in which the below factors were taken into
account have been tabulated below.

56

For contravention of any provision in Part 3, 4, 5, 6, 6A or 6B.

57

Where the organisation’s annual turnover in Singapore exceeds $10 million.

58

Where the organisation’s annual turnover in Singapore exceeds $20 million.

59

Commission’s Decisions can be found at https://www.pdpc.gov.sg/Commissions-Decisions.

37

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

Table 1: Factors and examples of past enforcement cases
S/N
a)

Factors
The nature, gravity and
duration of the noncompliance by the
organisation or person,
as the case may be

Past enforcement cases
Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants
[2018] SGPDPC 28 – The fact that the unauthorised
disclosure was limited to a single unintended
recipient for a short period of 10 minutes was taken
as a mitigating factor in the financial penalty
calibration (see paragraph 22 of the Grounds of
Decision).
Ninja Logistics Pte Ltd [2019] SGPDPC 39 – The fact
that the organisation was cognisant of the risks of
unauthorised access and disclosure to the exposed
personal data through the tracking function page,
but failed to resolve the issue for more than 2 years,
was taken as an aggravating factor (see paragraph
18 of the Grounds of Decision).
SPH Magazines Pte Ltd [2020] SGPDPC 3 – The facts
that the compromised password had not been
changed for a long period of 10 years and the
organisation was unable to detect the unauthorised
access of personal data for about 2 years, were
taken as aggravating factors (see paragraph 13 of
the Grounds of Decision).

b)

The type and nature of
the
personal
data
affected by the noncompliance by the
organisation or person,
as the case may be

Aviva Ltd [2018] SGPDPC 4 – The disclosure of
sensitive personal data, in particular medical
condition and sum assured, was treated as an
aggravating factor (see paragraph 30 of the
Grounds of Decision).
Singapore Health Services Pte. Ltd. and Integrated
Health Information Systems Pte. Ltd. [2019]
SGPDPC 3 – The financial penalty imposed on each
of the two organisations took into account the high
number of individuals affected and high sensitivity
of the personal data exfiltrated (see paragraph 139
of the Grounds of Decision).
Option Gift Pte Ltd [2019] SGPDPC 10 – The
organisation was found in breach for the
unintended disclosure of up to 426 individuals’
personal data due to a coding error in its system.
The disclosed personal data comprised login
identifications, email addresses, delivery addresses
and mobile numbers. The Commission considered,

38

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

S/N

Factors

Past enforcement cases
among other things, the number and type of
personal data compromised, and imposed a lower
financial penalty (see paragraph 9 of the Grounds of
Decision).

c)

Whether
the
organisation or person
(as the case may be), as
a result of the noncompliance, gained any
financial benefit or
avoided any financial
loss

Sharon Assya Qadriyah Tang [2018] SGPDPC 1 –
The profiteering from the sale of personal data was
taken to be an aggravating factor in calibrating the
financial penalty (see paragraph 32 of the Grounds
of Decision).

Whether
the
organisation or person
(as the case may be)
took any action to
mitigate the effects and
consequences of the
non-compliance, and
the timeliness and
effectiveness of that
action

Zero1 Pte. Ltd. and XDEL Singapore Pte. Ltd. [2019]
SGPDPC 37 – Quick remedial action by XDEL
Singapore Pte. Ltd. to rectify the code checking
function on the notification webpage system was
treated as a mitigating factor in calibrating the
financial penalty (see paragraph 26 of the Grounds
of Decision).

Whether
the
organisation or person
(as the case may be)
had, despite the noncompliance,
implemented adequate
and
appropriate
measures
for
compliance with the
requirements under this
Act

Propnex Realty Pte Ltd [2017] SGPDPC 1 – The facts
that the organisation had in place a data protection
policy which was made known to its agents and
staff, and that its in-house compliance team (with
assistance from external consultants) had been
conducting annual internal audits to assess system
access risk, data integrity risk and risk of
configuration issues in the production environment
were considered in calibrating the financial penalty
(see paragraph 32 of the Grounds of Decision).

d)

e)

Amicus Solutions Pte. Ltd. and Ivan Chua Lye Kiat
[2019] SGPDPC 33 – Profiteering from the sale of
personal data was treated as aggravating in
calibrating the financial penalty (see paragraphs 52
and 53 of the Grounds of Decision).

Singapore Telecommunications Limited [2019]
SGPDPC 49 – Prompt action taken to mitigate the
impact of the breach by implementing a temporary
fix within 11 hours, was taken as a mitigating factor
(see paragraph 14 of the Grounds of Decision).

ComGateway (S) Pte. Ltd. [2017] SGPDPC 19 – The
fact that the organisation had been conducting
regular penetration tests, vulnerability tests and
code reviews to guard against online security
threats was considered in calibrating the financial

39

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

S/N

Factors

Past enforcement cases
penalty (see paragraph 37 of the Grounds of
Decision).

f)

Whether
the
organisation or person
(as the case may be) had
previously failed to
comply with this Act

Aviva Ltd and Toh-Shi Printing Singapore Pte Ltd
[2016] SGPDPC 15 – Financial penalty against TohShi Printing Singapore Pte Ltd took into account the
fact that this was the second time within about a
year that a breach of the same case fact pattern had
occurred (see paragraph 38 of the Grounds of
Decision).

g)

h)

The compliance of the
organisation or person
(as the case may be)
with any direction given
under section 48I or
48L(4) in relation to
remedying or mitigating
the effect of the noncompliance
Whether the financial
penalty to be imposed is
proportionate
and
effective, having regard
to achieving compliance
and deterring noncompliance with this Act

Aviva Ltd [2018] SGPDPC 4 – The fact that the
organisation had encountered a similar incident
previously was treated as an aggravating factor (see
paragraph 30 of the Grounds of Decision).
This factor has not arisen in past cases. The
Commission may consider the fact that an
organisation did not comply with a previous
direction for the incident as an aggravating factor in
the financial penalty calibration for the incident.

Singapore Health Services Pte. Ltd. and Integrated
Health Information Systems Pte. Ltd. [2019]
SGPDPC 3 – The Commission decided to impose the
highest and second highest financial penalties
against Integrated Health Information Systems Pte.
Ltd. and Singapore Health Services Pte. Ltd.
respectively in recognition of the severity and
extent of the data breach and the serious lapses
(see paragraph 138 of the Grounds of Decision).
Amicus Solutions Pte. Ltd. and Ivan Chua Lye Kiat
[2019] SGPDPC 33 – In calibrating the financial
penalty, the Commission took a hard stance against
the unauthorised sale of personal data. In its
decision, the Commission emphasised that profiting
from sale of personal data by organisations without
consent of individuals was the kind of activity which
the PDPA sought to curb and would be dealt with
severely. The Commission further warned that any
profits from the unauthorised sale of personal data
may be taken into account in calculating the

40

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

S/N

Factors

Past enforcement cases
financial penalty to be imposed (see paragraphs 54
and 55 of the Grounds of Decision).

i)

The likely impact of the
imposition
of
the
financial penalty on the
organisation or person
(as the case may be),
including the ability of
the organisation or
person to continue the
usual activities of the
organisation or person

O2 Advertising Pte. Ltd. [2019] SGPDPC 32 – The
Commission reduced the financial penalty amount
after considering the organisation’s representation
of its dire financial circumstances (i.e. massive loss
due to fraud involving S$3.2mil, elderly 72-year-old
sole owner who intended to continue the business
on a significantly reduced scale) (see paragraphs 12
and 13 of the Grounds of Decision).

j)

Advance Home Tutors [2019] SGPDPC 35 – The
Commission reduced the financial penalty amount
to avoid imposing a crushing burden on the
organisation, following its representation that it
was a small home business which did not generate
much revenue (see paragraphs 27 and 30 of the
Grounds of Decision).

Any other matter that Aviva Ltd [2018] SGPDPC 4 – The fact that the
may be relevant
organisation was in the business of handling large
volumes of personal data, the disclosure of which
may cause exceptional damage, injury or hardship
to affected individuals was taken as aggravating
(see paragraph 30 of the Grounds of Decision).
DS Human Resource Pte. Ltd. [2019] SGPDPC 16 –
Despite the organisation’s representation of its
efforts to automate its business processes in
response to the Government’s push for small and
medium enterprises (SMEs) to go digital, the
Commission decided to maintain the financial
penalty. This was to convey the message that good
data management and protection practices need to
be adopted from the onset of the digitalisation
process even for SMEs, and these can be
proportionate without being too costly (see
paragraph 14 of the Grounds of Decision).
Creative Technology Ltd [2020] SGPDPC 1 – The
Commission considered as a mitigating factor the
organisation’s effort of going through its email logs
to determine the number of affected user emails
which contained either names or partial names,

41

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

S/N

Factors

Past enforcement cases
even though it had deleted the database (see
paragraph 13 of the Grounds of Decision).

42

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART VII: COMMON ISSUES RELATING TO THE COMMISSION’S DECISIONS AND
DIRECTIONS
28.

Commission’s power to publish decisions and directions and voluntary
undertakings

28.1

Regulations 17, 18 and 19 of the Enforcement Regulations provide that the
Commission may, where it has made a decision or issued a direction or written notice
under section 48H(2) or 48I(1) or (2) or 48J(1) or 48N(6)(b) of the PDPA, publish:
28.1.1 the decision or direction or written notice (collectively, the “Decision”); or
28.1.2 a summary of the Decision (a “Summary”).

28.2

The Commission’s Decisions will typically set out the following:
28.2.1 the Commission’s findings and the relevant evidence obtained by the
Commission on which the findings are based;
28.2.2 the reasons for the Commission’s decision, based on the application of the
relevant legal principles to the facts of the case; and
28.2.3 where the Commission finds an organisation in contravention of the PDPA, the
direction or other action taken by the Commission.

28.3

Prior to publication of a Decision or a Summary, the Commission will give notice of the
Decision to the respondent and complainant (if any).

28.4

In considering whether to publish a Decision or a Summary (at the appropriate time
as described in the previous paragraph), the Commission will adopt the following
approach:
28.4.1 The Commission will generally publish a Decision relating to an organisation
that is found to have contravened the PDPA. Amongst other reasons, this is for
reasons of transparency, and so that other organisations may take note of the
manner in which the Commission has applied the PDPA in specific cases and
take preventive measures to avoid similar occurrences.
28.4.2 The Commission will generally not publish a Decision under section 48H(2) of
the PDPA as such Decisions do not always amount to a finding that an
organisation has contravened the Data Protection Provisions.
28.4.3 Nevertheless, the Commission may publish a Decision or a Summary thereof if
it includes matters which, in the Commission’s view, would be of general
interest to the public or which would provide guidance to individuals and

43

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

organisations in relation to their respective rights and obligations under the
PDPA.
28.4.4 Depending on the particular situation, the Commission may publish the name
of the organisation involved in the Decision or Summary, after removing
confidential information from the report.
28.5

Where a Decision contains personal data or information that is treated as confidential
under the PDPA,60 the Commission will either redact such data and information from
the published Decision or publish a Summary that excludes such data and information.

28.6

A Decision or Summary may be published on the Commission’s website or in such
other manner as the Commission may direct.

28.7

For the avoidance of doubt, non-publication of a Decision or Summary by the
Commission does not affect the legal validity or effect of a Decision.

28.8

Similarly, where the Commission accepts a voluntary undertaking given by an
organisation or a person, the Commission may publish the voluntary undertaking or a
summary thereof on the Commission’s website or in such other manner as the
Commission may decide.

29.

Enforcement of the Commission’s directions

29.1

Section 48M of the PDPA provides that the Commission may register a direction or
written notice under section 48H(2), 48I, 48L(4), 48J(1) or 48K(10) of the PDPA in the
District Court. A registered direction or written notice has the same force and effect
for the purposes of enforcement as if it is an order obtained in the District Court. Legal
proceedings may thus be taken on the registered direction to enforce the direction.

60

See PDPA, section 59.

44

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART VIII: RECONSIDERATION
30.

Reconsideration of a decision or direction or financial penalty

30.1

Section 48N(1) of the PDPA provides that an organisation or person61 aggrieved by a
decision, direction or financial penalty (as the case may be) of the Commission under
section 48G(2), 48H(2), 48I(1) or (2), 48L(4) or 48J(1) of the PDPA may apply to the
Commission for the Commission to reconsider the decision, direction or financial
penalty. An application for reconsideration shall be made within 28 days from the
issuance of the decision or direction.

30.2

Section 48N(3) of the PDPA further provides that unless the Commission decides
otherwise, the making of an application for reconsideration does not suspend the
effect of the decision or direction to be reconsidered (the “contested decision”),
except in respect of a financial penalty.

30.3

Section 48N(4) of the PDPA provides that an application for reconsideration must set
out the grounds on which the applicant is requesting the reconsideration. Part 3 of
the Enforcement Regulations sets out further details on the manner of making an
application for reconsideration. The Enforcement Regulations elaborates on this by
providing that an application for reconsideration must include the following:
30.3.1 the applicant’s grounds for making the application, identifying, in particular:
(a)

the extent (if any) to which the applicant contends that the contested
decision was based on an error of fact or was wrong in law; and

(b)

the extent (if any) to which the applicant is requesting that the
Commission reconsider its exercise of discretion in making the
contested decision;

30.3.2 a presentation of the arguments of fact or law supporting each ground of the
application;
30.3.3 the decisions under section 48N(6)(b) of the PDPA (if any) sought by the
applicant and the reasons for seeking those decisions;62and
30.3.4 copies of documents specified therein.63
61

This includes an individual who is a complainant in relation to a decision or direction made under section
48G(2), 48H(2), 48I(1) or (2) or 48L(4) of the PDPA.
62

For example, where the applicant is an organisation, the applicant may wish to ask that the Commission amend
its direction in a particular manner. Where the applicant is an individual, the applicant may be asking for a
particular outcome, such as a direction under section 48H(2) of the PDPA for an organisation to provide access
to his personal data.
63

See Enforcement Regulations, regulation 11.

45

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

30.4

An application for reconsideration must be accompanied by a copy of the contested
decision and the fee as prescribed in the Enforcement Regulations.64 Where the
application for reconsideration relates to a decision or direction under section 48H(2)
of the PDPA, the prescribed fee is $25. For all other applications for reconsideration,
the prescribed fee is $250.

30.5

Any applicant who wishes to request that the contested decision be stayed pending
the Commission’s decision upon reconsideration may make his request in his
application for reconsideration or at any stage of the reconsideration process by
making a written request to the Commission.

30.6

Organisations and individuals that are aggrieved by a decision or direction of the
Commission may, instead of making an application for reconsideration, appeal against
the decision or direction to the Data Protection Appeal Panel.

31.

Reconsideration procedure

31.1

The procedures that the Commission will adopt in a reconsideration under section
48N(1) of the PDPA are mainly set out in Part 3 of the Enforcement Regulations.

31.2

Where the Commission receives a reconsideration application that has been
submitted in accordance with section 48N of the PDPA and regulation 11 of the
Enforcement Regulations, the Commission will serve on the respondent a copy of the
reconsideration application and any accompanying documents or information that
have been provided by the applicant.

31.3

The Commission will also serve on the respondent a notice requiring that a written
response setting out any explanation or reply that the respondent may wish to offer
on the matters or issues raised in the application, be submitted within a period
specified by the Commission.

31.4

In general, the Commission will give the respondent a reasonable time frame, taking
into account the issues raised in the application for reconsideration, to submit the
response. Typically, the time frame would be within 14 days for submission of the
response. The respondent may apply to the Commission in writing for an extension of
the time frame for submission of the response, subject to the Commission’s approval
of such request for extension of time.

31.5

If the respondent fails to submit a response within the time frame specified by the
Commission (including any extension thereof granted by the Commission upon the
application of the other party), the Commission shall proceed to make its decision
based on the information and documents obtained by the Commission. Section 32 of
these Guidelines describes the decisions and directions that the Commission may
make upon reconsidering a decision or direction.

64

See Enforcement Regulations, The Schedule.

46

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

31.6

Where the respondent submits a response, the Commission may, where it considers
it appropriate:
31.6.1 serve a copy of the response and any accompanying statutory declaration or
document or information on the applicant;65 and
31.6.2 invite the applicant to submit to the Commission, within a period specified by
the Commission, a written reply to the other party’s response as the applicant
may wish to give.

31.7

In general, where the Commission invites the applicant to submit a reply, the
Commission will give the applicant a fair and reasonable time frame to do so, taking
into account the issues raised in the respondent’s response. Typically, the time frame
would be within 14 days for submission of the reply. The applicant may apply to the
Commission in writing for an extension of the time frame for submission of the reply,
subject to the Commission’s approval of such request for extension of time.

31.8

Upon the expiry of the time frame specified by the Commission for the submission of
the reply (including any extension thereof granted by the Commission upon the
application of the other party), the Commission shall proceed to make its decision
based on the information and documents obtained by the Commission. Paragraph 27
describes the decisions and directions that the Commission may make upon
reconsidering a decision or direction.

31.9

After making its decision, the Commission shall give notice of the decision to the
applicant and the other party. The Commission may also publish the decision or a
summary of the decision as described in Part VII of these Guidelines.

31.10 The applicant may withdraw an application for reconsideration with the permission of
the Commission at any time before the Commission has given a notice of its decision
under section 48N(6)(b) of the PDPA. Where an applicant wishes to withdraw its
application, it shall apply to the Commission in writing and provide the reasons for its
decision to withdraw the application. The Commission will generally permit the
applicant to withdraw his application unless the Commission considers that there is
sufficient reason, based on the information and documents provided to the
Commission prior to the applicant’s request to withdraw his application, for the
Commission to reconsider the contested decision. Where the Commission permits an
applicant to withdraw his application, the Commission shall not proceed any further
in reconsidering the contested decision.

65

See paragraph 11.2.2 of these Guidelines concerning statutory declarations.

47

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

32.

Commission’s decisions and directions upon reconsideration

32.1

Section 48N(6)(b) of the PDPA provides that the Commission may, after reconsidering
the contested decision, affirm, revoke or vary the contested decision as the
Commission thinks fit.

32.2

There shall be no further application for reconsideration of a decision made under
section 48N of the PDPA. However, an organisation or individual who is aggrieved by
such a decision may appeal to the Data Protection Appeal Panel under section 48Q of
the PDPA.

48

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PART IX: APPEALS AND RIGHTS OF PRIVATE ACTION
33.

Appeal against decision or direction

33.1

Section 48Q of the PDPA provides that an organisation or person66 aggrieved by a
decision or direction (as the case may be) of the Commission under section 48G(2),
48H(2), 48I(1) or (2), 48J(1), 48L(4) or 48N(6)(b) of the PDPA may appeal to the
Chairman of the Data Protection Appeal Panel against that decision or direction. An
appeal shall be made within 28 days of the issuance of the decision or direction that
is the subject of the appeal (the “appealed decision”).

33.2

Section 48Q(3) of the PDPA provides that where an application for reconsideration
has been made under section 48N of the PDPA, every appeal in respect of the same
decision or direction shall be deemed to be withdrawn. In such a situation, an
appellant whose appeal is deemed to be withdrawn may make an application for
reconsideration to the Commission, and the Commission shall consider such
applications concurrently with other applications for reconsideration in respect of the
same matter. Alternatively, the appellant may await the outcome of the Commission’s
reconsideration of its decision or direction and consider whether to make an appeal
against the Commission’s decision upon reconsideration (under section 48N(6)(b) of
the PDPA).

33.3

Section 48Q(4) of the PDPA further provides that unless the Data Protection Appeal
Committee hearing an appeal decides otherwise, the making of an appeal does not
suspend the effect of the appealed decision, except in the case of a direction to pay a
financial penalty.

34.

Data Protection Appeal Committee’s decisions and directions

34.1

Section 48Q(5) of the PDPA provides that the Data Protection Appeal Committee
hearing an appeal may, after hearing the appeal:
34.1.1 remit the matter to the Commission;
34.1.2 impose or revoke, or vary the amount of, a financial penalty;
34.1.3 give such other direction or take such other step as the Commission could itself
have given or taken; or
34.1.4 make any other direction or decision that the Commission could itself have
made.

66

This includes an individual who is a complainant in relation to a decision or direction made under section
48G(2), 48H(2), 48I(1) or (2) or 48L(4) of the PDPA.

49

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

34.2

Any direction or decision of a Data Protection Appeal Committee under section 48Q(5)
of the PDPA has the same effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as a
direction or decision of the Commission, except that there shall be no application for
further reconsideration under section 48N of the PDPA and no further appeal under
section 48Q of the PDPA from any direction or decision of the Data Protection Appeal
Committee. Please refer to the next section concerning appeals to the High Court and
Court of Appeal.

35.

Appeals to High Court and Court of Appeal

35.1

Section 48R(1) of the PDPA provides that an appeal against, or with respect to, a
decision or direction of a Data Protection Appeal Committee may be made to the
General Division of the High Court:
35.1.1 on a point of law; or
35.1.2 as to the amount of a financial penalty.

35.2

An appeal under section 48R(1) of the PDPA may be made by67:
35.2.1 an organisation or person aggrieved by the decision or direction of the Data
Protection Appeal Committee;
35.2.2 where the decision relates to a complaint, the complainant; or
35.2.3 the Commission.

35.3

Under section 48R (3) of the PDPA, the High Court shall hear and determine any such
appeal and may:
35.3.1 confirm, modify or reverse the decision or direction of the Data Protection
Appeal Committee; and
35.3.2 make such further or other order, including (without limitation) orders as to
costs, as the Court may think fit.

35.4

A decision of the High Court under section 48R(3) of the PDPA may be appealed to the
Court of Appeal in accordance with the Rules of Court.

36.

Rights of private action

36.1

Section 48O(1) of the PDPA provides that any person who suffers loss or damage
directly as a result of a contravention by an organisation of any provisions in Part 4, 5,
6, 6A or 6B or by a person of any provision of Division 3 of Part 9 or 9A may commence
civil proceedings in the courts against the organisation. Under section 48O(3) of the

67

See PDPA, section 48R(2).

50

ADVISORY GUIDELINES ON ENFORCEMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION PROVISIONS (Revised 1 February 2021)

PDPA, a court hearing an action under section 49O(1) of the PDPA may grant any or
all of the following:
36.1.1 an injunction or a declaration;
36.1.2 damages;
36.1.3 such other relief as the court thinks fit.
36.2

Where the Commission has made a decision under the PDPA in respect of a
contravention, no action may be brought under section 48O(1) of the PDPA in respect
of that contravention until the decision has become final as a result of there being no
further right of appeal.68

36.3

As the Commission is not empowered to award damages or other relief noted above
to a complainant, persons who suffer loss or damage as a result of a contravention of
the PDPA may commence civil proceedings directly. In general, such persons may wish
to obtain legal advice in relation to their claim and possible civil proceedings.

36.4

Under the Rules of Court, where a party (referred to as the plaintiff) commences civil
proceedings for relief under section 48O(1) of the PDPA, he is required to serve a copy
of the writ or originating summons to the Commission not later than 7 days after
service of the writ or originating summons on the defendant.69 In addition, any person
who is granted a judgment or order by a court pursuant to section 48O of the PDPA is
required to transmit a copy of the judgment or order to the Commission within 3 days
after the date of the judgment or order.70

END OF DOCUMENT

68

See PDPA, section 48O(2).

69

See Rules of Court, Order 105, Rule 12.

70

See Rules of Court, Order 105, Rule 13.

51

