THE ACT ON PROMOTION OF INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK UTILIZATION AND
DATA PROTECTION, ETC.

Established by Act No. 6360, Jan. 16, 2001
Amended by Act No. 10138, Mar. 17, 2010
Amended by Act No. 10560, Apr. 5, 2011
Amended by Act No. 11322, Feb. 17, 2012
Amended by Act No. 12681, May 28, 2014
Amended by Act No. 13014, Jan. 20, 2015
Amended by Act No. 13280, Mar. 27, 2015
Amended by Act No. 13344, June 22, 2015
Amended by Act No. 13520, Dec. 1, 2015
CHAPTER Ⅰ GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1 (Purpose)

The purpose of this Act is to promote the utilization of information and
communications networks, to protect the personal information of users utilizing
information and communications services, and to build a safe and sound
environment for the information and communications networks in order to
improve the citizen's lives and enhance the public welfare.
Article 2 (Definitions)

(1) The terms used in this Act shall be defined as follows:
- 1 -

1. "Information and communications networks" mean the information and
communications system under which telecommunications facilities and equipment
as prescribed in subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Telecommunications
Business Act are utilized, or the telecommunications facilities and equipment,
computers and the technology of using computers are utilized together to collect,
process, store, search, transmit and receive information;
2. "Information and communications services" mean the telecommunications
services as prescribed in subparagraph 6 of Article 2 of the Telecommunications
Business Act, and the provision of information or the intermediation of
information services utilizing the telecommunications services;
3. "Information and communications service provider" means the operator of
telecommunications as prescribed in subparagraph 8 of Article 2 of the
Telecommunications Business Act and other person who provides information or
intermediate information services for profit utilizing the services rendered by the
telecommunications service providers;
4. "Users" mean the persons who utilize the information and communications
services rendered by the information and communications service provider;
5. "Electronic message" means the standardized data in the form of document
in which information is electronically compiled, sent or received, or stored by
equipment, including computers, etc., that are capable of doing information
processing;
6. "Personal information" means the information pertaining to any living person,
which contains the code, letter, voice, sound and image, etc. that make it
possible to identify such individual by his/her name and resident registration
number, etc. (including the information that does not, on its own, permit direct
- 2 -

identification of a specific individual, but that does identify specific individual
when it is easily combined with other information.);
7. "Incidents" mean accidents caused by such attack on the information and
communications networks or related information systems as hacking, computer
viruses, logical bomb, mail bomb, denial of service, high-powered
electromagnetic wave, etc.;
8. Deleted <Jun. 22, 2015>;
9. "Bulletin boards" mean the computer programs or technological devices,
regardless of their names, to which the users may post the code, letter, voice,
sound, image, video clips and other information for the purpose of making public
by using the information and communications networks;
10. "Communications billing services" mean the information and communications
services carrying out the business as defined in the following items:
a. The business which claims and collects the prices of goods or services
sold or provided by others together with the charges for the telecommunications
services provided by itself; or
b. The business which transmits or receives the transaction data
electronically, or conducts the settlement of charges as a proxy or intermediary
so that the prices of the goods or services sold or provided by others may be
claimed and collected together with the telecommunications service charges
stated in Item a.
11. "Communications billing service provider" means the operator who provides
the communications billing services subject to the registration pursuant to
Article 53;
12. "Communications billing service users" mean the persons who purchase and
- 3 -

use the goods or services by means of the communications billing services
provided by the communications billing service provider; and
13. "Electronic transmission media" mean the media by which code, letter, voice,
sound, image, video clips and other information are transmitted to the receiver
in such an electronic form as electronic messages, etc. via the information and
communications networks. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(2) The definitions stated herein, except otherwise provided for in paragraph (1),
shall be subject to the National Informatization Framework Act.
Article 3 (Duties of Information and Communications Service Provider
and Users)

(1) Any information and communications service provider shall protect the
personal information of users, and contribute to the protection of the rights and
interests of such users and to the enhancement of its information utilization
capability by rendering the information and communications services in a safe
and sound manner.
(2) Every user shall endeavor to help a sound information society take hold.
(3) The government may assist the organizations of information and
communications service providers and the organizations of users in carrying out
their activities designed to protect the personal information and the youth in the
information and communications networks.
Article 4 (Policy for Promotion of Information and Communications
Network Utilization and Data Protection, etc.)

(1) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
- 4 -

Communications Commission shall formulate a policy to lay the foundation for
building an information society through the promotion of utilization and the
secure management and operation of information and communications networks,
and the protection of personal information of users (hereinafter referred to as
the "promotion of the utilization of information and communications networks
and data protection, etc.").
(2) The policy referred to in paragraph (1) shall contain the matters stated in
the following subparagraphs:
1. Development and distribution of technologies related to the information and
communications networks;
2. Standardization of the information and communications networks;
3. Activation of utilization of the information and communications networks
such as the development of information contents and applied services of the
information and communications networks subject to Article 11;
4. Facilitation of joint utilization of information via information and
communications networks;
5. Activation of utilization of the Internet;
6. Protection of personal information collected, processed, stored and utilized
via information and communications networks, and development and distribution
of related technologies;
7. Protection of the youth in the information and communications networks;
8. Enhancement of safety and reliability of the information and
communications networks; and
9. Other matters necessary to promote the utilization of the information and
communications networks and data protection, etc.
- 5 -

(3) In formulating the policy referred to in paragraph (1), the Minister of
Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea Communications Commission
shall endeavor to coordinate such policy with the basic plan for promoting
informatization as prescribed in Article 6 of the National Informatization
Framework Act.
Article 5 (Relation with Other Acts)

The promotion of utilization of information and communications networks and
data protection, etc. shall be governed by this Act except specially provided for
in other acts; provided, however, that, in case this Act and the Electronic
Financial Transactions Act compete to apply with respect to the communications
billing services stated in Chapter VII, this Act shall prevail.
CHAPTER Ⅱ PROMOTION OF INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK UTILIZATION
Articles 6 - 17 Omitted1)
CHAPTER Ⅲ Deleted
Articles 18 - 21 Deleted <Jun. 22, 2015>
CHAPTER Ⅳ PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
Section 1. Collection of Personal Information

1) Translation of the provisions of Articles unrelated with data protection is Omitted
- 6 -

Article 22 (Consent to the Collection and Utilization of Personal
Information, etc.)

(1) Any information and communications service provider shall, when it
intends to gather user's personal information, notify the user of the whole
matters stated in the following subparagraphs, and obtain his/her consent
thereof. The same shall apply to any change of the following subparagraphs:
1. The purpose of collection and utilization of personal information;
2. The items of personal information collected hereunder; and
3. The period of retention and utilization of personal information.
(2) The information and communications service provider may collect and
utilize the user's personal information without consent subject to paragraph (1)
in case any of the following subparagraphs applies:
1. Where, as for the personal information, which is necessary to perform the
contract for the provision of information and communications services, it is
evidently difficult to obtain ordinary consent on account of economical and
technological reasons;
2. Where it is necessary to calculate the fees for the provision of information
and communications services; or
3. Where special provisions exist in this Act or other acts.
Article 22-2 (Consent to the Authorized Access)

(1) The information and communications service provider shall notify the user
of the following subparagraphs so that he/she may understand them explicitly,
and obtain his/her consent thereof when the information and communications
- 7 -

service provider needs the authorized access to the data stored in the mobile
communication device of the user and the functions of such device (hereinafter
referred to as the “authorized access”) for its service for the user:
1. In case where the authorized access is inevitable for the relevant service
a. The items of data and functions in need of the authorized access; and
b. The reason why the authorized access is necessary.
2. In case where the authorized access is not inevitable for the relevant
service
a. The items of data and functions in need of the authorized access;
b. The reason why the authorized access is necessary; and
c. The fact that user may abstain from consent to the authorized consent.
(2) The information and communications service provider shall not refuse the
relevant services on the grounds that the user does not consent to the
authorized access which is not necessarily required for the relevant service.
(3) The maker of basic operating systems of mobile communication devices
(that means the infrastructure environment to run softwares of such devices)
and the manufacturers of such devices and the supplier of softwares of such
devices shall take such measures as consent to, and withdrawal from, the
authorized access which are necessary for the protection of user’s data when the
information and communications service provider intends to access the data
stored in the mobile communication devices and the functions of such devices.
(4) The scope of the authorized access subject to paragraph (1), method of
consent, necessary measures for the protection of user’s data and other
necessary matters shall be prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016 and Effective Mar. 23, 2017]
- 8 -

Article 23 (Restrictions on Collecting Personal Information, etc.)
(1) No information and communications service provider shall collect the
personal information, including ideology, belief, family and relative relations,
academic record, medical record and other social career, etc., which is likely to
excessively infringe upon the right, interest and privacy of the relevant user;
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the necessary minimum
extent where the consent of the user is obtained pursuant to Article 22(1) or
the subject of collecting personal information is specified in other acts.
<Amended May 28, 2014>
(2) Any information and communications service provider shall, when it
collects the personal information of users, collect only the minimum personal
information to the extent necessary to provide the information and
communications services. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(3) The information and communications service provider shall not refuse the
relevant services on the grounds that the user does not provide any other
personal information than the necessary minimum personal information. In this
case, the necessary minimum personal information shall mean the inevitable
information necessary to perform the fundamental function of the relevant
service. <Newly Inserted May 28, 2014>
Article 23-2 (Restriction of Use of Resident Registration Numbers)

(1) The information and communications service provider shall not collect and
use the resident registration numbers of users except otherwise applicable to
any of the following subparagraphs:
- 9 -

1. Where it has been designated as an identification agency pursuant to
Article 23-3;
2. Where the collection and use of resident registration numbers of users are
permitted by statutes; or
3. Where the information and communications service provider regards it as
inevitable to collect and use the resident registration numbers of users for the
conduct of business, as notified by the Korea Communications Commission.
(2) Although the collection and use of resident registration numbers are
permitted pursuant to subparagraphs 2 or 3 of paragraph (1), alternative means
to identify the user other than his/her resident registration number (hereinafter
referred to as the "alternative means") shall be provided to the users.
[This Article Wholly Amended Feb. 17, 2012]
Article 23-3 (Designation, etc. of Identification Agency)

(1) The Korea Communications Commission may, upon assessing the following
matters, designate the person, who is determined capable of safe and trustful
conduct of developing, providing and managing the alternative means (hereinafter
referred to as the "identification operations") as the identification agency:
1. Physical, technical and managerial measures and planning to ensure the
safe and secure identification operations;
2. Technological and financial capability to conduct the identification
operations; and
3. Appropriateness of facilities to conduct the identification operations.
(2) When the identification agency wants to have recess of the whole or part
of identification operations, it shall notify the recess plan and period to users 30
- 10 -

days prior to the start day and report it to the Korea Communications
Commission. In this case, the recess period shall not exceed six months.
(3) When the identification agency wants to repeal its identification operations,
it shall notify the repeal plan to users 60 days in advance, and report it to the
Korea Communications Commission.
(4) Necessary matters for the detailed assessment criteria pursuant to
paragraphs (1) through (3), designation procedure and the recess, repeal, etc. of
identification operations shall be prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted Apr. 5, 2011]
Article 23-4 (Suspension of Identification Operations and Withdrawal of
Designation)

(1) When any of the following subparagraphs is applicable to the identification
agency, the Korea Communications Commission may order the suspension of the
whole or part of identification operations for a period of not more than six
months or withdraw the designation of identification agency; provided, however,
that the withdrawal of designation shall be mandatory in case of subparagraph 1
or 2:
1. Where it has been designated as an identification agency by fraud or
other unjust means;
2. Where it has failed to stop its operations in violation of the order to
suspend the identification operations;
3. Where it has failed to start the identification operations within six months
from the designation day, or has recess of the identification operations
continuously for more than six months; or
- 11 -

4. Where it does not satisfy the criteria pursuant to Article 23-3(4).
(2) The criteria for administrative disposition pursuant to paragraph (1), its
procedure and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by the Presidential
Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted Apr. 5, 2011]
Article 24 (Restrictions on Utilizing Personal Information)

No information and communications service provider shall utilize the personal
information collected pursuant to Article 22 and the proviso of Article 23(1) for
other purpose than the purpose consented by the relevant user or referred to in
each subparagraph of Article 22(2).
Article 24-2 (Consent to the Provision of Personal Information, etc.)

(1) Any information and communications service provider shall, when it
intends to provide user's personal information to a third party, notify the user
of the whole matters stated in the following subparagraphs except the cases
falling under subparagraphs 2 and 3 of Article 22(2), and obtain his/her consent
thereof. The same shall apply to any change of the following subparagraphs:
1. The receiver of personal information;
2. The purpose of utilizing personal information of such receiver;
3. The items of personal information provided hereunder; and
4. The period of retention and utilization of personal information by the
receiver.
(2) The receiver of the personal information of users provided by the
information and communications service provider pursuant to paragraph (1) shall
- 12 -

not provide such personal information to a third party, nor utilize such personal
information for other use than the purpose of being provided except the cases
specified in other acts.
(3) The information and communications service provider, etc. as stated in
Article 25(1) shall, upon obtaining the consent to the provision pursuant to
paragraph (1) and the consent to entrusting handling of personal information
pursuant to Article 25(1), separate such consent from the consent to the
collection and use of personal information pursuant to Article 22, and shall not
refuse to provide its service on ground that the user would not give consent to
it. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 25 (Entrusting Processing of Personal Information)

(1) The information and communications service provider and the receiver of
the personal information of users provided by such provider pursuant to Article
24-2(1) (hereinafter referred to as the "information and communications service
provider, etc.") shall, if they entrust the work (hereinafter collectively referred to
as "entrusting processing" of personal information) of collecting, creating,
connecting, interlocking, recording, retaining, processing, editing, retrieving,
printing out, modifying, restoring, utilizing, providing, disclosing, destroying and
similarly doing (hereinafter collectively referred to as "processing") the personal
information of users to a third party, notify the user of the whole matters
stated in the following subparagraphs, and obtain his/her consent thereof. The
same shall apply to any change of the following subparagraphs: <Amended
Mar. 22, 2016>
- 13 -

1. The person entrusted processing of personal information (hereinafter
referred to as the "trustee"); and
2. Particulars of entrusted work of processing of personal information.
(2) The information and communications service provider, etc. may skip the
notice and consent procedure as prescribed in paragraph (1) in case the whole
matters of each subparagraph of paragraph (1) are made public pursuant to
Article 27-2(1) or notified to users in such a manner like sending e-mails as
stated in the Presidential Decree, which is necessary to perform the contract for
the provision of information and communications services and to augment the
users’ convenience, etc. The same shall apply to any change of the
subparagraphs of paragraph (1). <Amended May 28, 2014; Mar. 22, 2016>
(3) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall, when it
intends to entrust processing of personal information, define the purpose in
advance for which the trustee shall process the personal information of users.
The trustee shall not process the personal information of users beyond such
purpose. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(4) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall manage,
supervise and educate the trustee lest it should violate the provisions in this
Chapter. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(5) The trustee, who caused damage to the users regarding the work
processing entrusted hereunder in violation of the provisions in this Chapter,
shall be deemed as an employee of the information and communications service
provider, etc. only with respect to compensation for such damage. <Amended
Mar. 22, 2016>
(6) What the information and communications service provider, etc. has
- 14 -

entrusted processing of personal information to a trustee shall be in writing.
<Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
(7) The trustee may re-entrust the work entrusted pursuant to paragraph (1)
only when he/she has obtained the consent of the information and
communications service provider, etc. who has entrusted processing of personal
information. <Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
[Heading Amended Mar. 22, 2016]
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 26 (Transfer of Personal Information following the Business
Transfer, etc.)

(1) In the event that the information and communications service provider, etc.
transfers the personal information of users to others owing to the transfer of
business in whole or in part, or merger, etc., it shall notify the users of the
whole matters prescribed in the following subparagraphs in such a manner like
sending e-mails, posting at the Website and so forth as stated in the
Presidential Decree:
1. The fact that the personal information is to be transferred;
2. The name (referring to the company name in case of a juridical person;
hereafter the same shall apply in this Article), address, telephone number and
other contact points of a person who has received the personal information
(hereinafter referred to as the "business transferee, etc.");
3. The method and procedure to withdraw the consent in case the user would
not want the transfer of personal information.
(2) The business transferee, etc. shall, without delay upon the transfer of
- 15 -

personal information, notify the users of such fact and the name, address,
telephone number and other contact points in such a manner like posting at the
Website, sending e-mails and so forth as stated in the Presidential Decree.
<Amended May 28, 2014>
(3) The business transferee, etc. may utilize or provide the personal
information of users within the scope of the initial purpose for which the
information and communications service provider, etc. is allowed to utilize or
provide such personal information; provided, however, that the same shall not
apply where the users have consented specifically.
Article 26-2 (Method to Obtain Consent)

The method how to obtain the consent pursuant to Article 22(1), the proviso
of Article 23(1), Article24-2(1) and (2), Article 25(1), the proviso of Article 26(3)
or Article 63(2) (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "consent to the
collection, utilization, provision, etc. of personal information") shall be stated by
the Presidential Decree in view of the media for collecting personal information,
the nature of business operations, the number of users, and so forth.
Section 2. The Management and Destruction of Personal Information
Article 27 (Designation of Person in Charge of Data Protection)

(1) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall designate
the person in charge of data protection to protect the personal information of
users and deal with complaints of users related with the personal information;
provided, however, that the same may not apply to the information and
- 16 -

communications service provider, etc. who satisfies the number of employees
and users, and other criteria specified by the Presidential Decree. <Amended
Mar. 22, 2016>
(2) In case the information and communications service provider, etc. subject
to the proviso of paragraph (1) do not designate the person in charge of data
protection, its owner or representative shall become the person in charge of data
protection. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(3) Qualification requirements for the person in charge of data protection and
other matters necessary to designate the person shall be prescribed by the
Presidential Decree. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(4) When the person in charge of data protection finds out any fact in
violation of this Act and other relevant laws and regulations, he/she shall
immediately take measures to correct such violations, and, if necessary, report
such measures to the business owner or representative of the information and
communications service provider, etc.; provided, however, that, if the business
owner or representative shall become the person in charge of data protection,
the provision regarding report of corrective measures shall not apply. <Newly
Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
[Heading Amended Mar. 22, 2016]
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 27-2 (Disclosure of Personal Information Policy Statement)

(1) In case of processing the personal information of users, the information
and communications service provider, etc. shall establish and disclose the
personal information policy statement in such a manner as stated in the
- 17 -

Presidential Decree so that users may identify the policy with ease at any time.
<Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(2) The personal information policy statement subject to paragraph (1) shall
contain each and all following subparagraphs: <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; Mar.
22, 2016>
1. The purpose of collection and utilization of the personal information,
particulars of personal information collected hereunder and the method of
collection thereof;
2. The name (referring to the company name in case of a juridical person) of
a person who has received the personal information, the purpose of utilization,
and particulars, of the personal information in case the personal information is
provided to a third party;
3. The period of retention and utilization of personal information, the
procedure and method of destruction of personal information (including the
ground of preservation and the particulars of personal information to be
preserved in case of preserving such information subject to the proviso except
each subparagraph of Article 29)
4. The content of business for which processing of personal information is
entrusted and the trustee (including the processing policy statement, if
applicable);
5. The rights of users and legal representatives, and how to excise the
rights;
6. The installation and operation of the device collecting automatically the
personal information like the Internet logon files, etc. and how to deny such
device;
- 18 -

7. The name or a person in charge of data protection, or the department to
protect the personal information of users and deal with complaints of users
related with the personal information, and the contact points like telephone
numbers.
(3) In case of change of the personal information policy statement pursuant to
paragraph (1), the information and communications service provider, etc. shall
make public without delay the reason and changes thereof in such a manner as
stated in the Presidential Decree so that users may identify the change of policy
statement with ease at any time. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
[Heading Amended Mar. 22, 2016]
Article 27-3 (Notification and Report of Personal Information Leakage, etc.)
(1) Upon knowing the loss, theft and leakage of personal information
(hereinafter referred to as "leakage, etc."), the information and communications
service provider, etc. shall, without delay, inform each of the following
subparagraphs of the relevant users, and report it to the Korea Communications
Commission or the Korea Internet and Security Agency, and shall not delay,
without justifiable reasons, such notification and report exceeding 24 hours from
the time when it got to know the fact; provided, however, that it may take
other measures, if there is such a justifiable reason as whereabouts of users are
still unknown, as replaceable with the notification as prescribed by the
Presidential Decree: <Amended May 28, 2014; Mar. 22, 2016>
1. Personal information items affected by leakage, etc.;
2. Time when leakage, etc. took place;
3. Measures that users may take;
- 19 -

4. Countermeasures that the information and communications service
provider, etc. may take; and
5. Department where users may place inquiries, etc. and other contact points.
(2) Upon receiving the report pursuant to paragraph (1), the Korea Internet
and Security Agency shall, without delay, inform the fact of the Korea
Communications Commission. <Newly Inserted May 28, 2014>
(3) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall explain the
justifiable reasons pursuant to the main sentence and proviso of paragraph (1)
to the Korea Communications Commission. <Newly Inserted May 28, 2014>
(4) The method, procedure, etc. of notification and report pursuant to
paragraph (1) and other necessary matters shall be prescribed by the
Presidential Decree. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(5) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall prepare for
the leakage, etc. of personal information, and explore ways to establish measures
to minimize the damage to victims. <Amended May 28, 2014; Mar. 22, 2016>
[Heading Amended Mar. 22, 2016]
Article 28 (Data Protection Measures)

(1) In case of processing the personal information of users, the information
and communications service provider, etc. shall take such technological and
managerial measures as mentioned in the following subparagraphs to prevent the
loss, theft, leakage, forgery, alteration of, or damage to, the personal information
and to ensure the safety of personal information by the standard as specified by
the Presidential Decree. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
1. To establish and implement the in-house management plan to process the
- 20 -

personal information more safely;
2. To install and operate the access control system like firewall to block
illegal access to the personal information;
3. To take measures to prevent the forgery or falsification of logon files;
4. To take security measures using encryption technologies in order to store
and transmit the personal information more safely;
5. To take such preventive measures as download and operation of the
vaccination softwares to protect from computer viruses; and
6. To take other protective measures necessary to secure the safety of the
personal information.
(2) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall limit the
persons to process the personal information of users to the minimum.
<Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 28-2 (Prohibition of Leakage of Personal Information)

(1) Any person who is processing, or once processed, the personal information
of users shall not damage, infringe upon or leak out the information acquired in
the course of business. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(2) No one shall be provided with the personal information for profit or unjust
purposes while knowing such information has been leaked out.
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 29 (Destruction of Personal Information)

(1) The information and communication service provider, etc. shall, without
- 21 -

delay, destroy the relevant personal information lest it should be restored or
recovered in case any of the following cases applies; provided, however, that the
same shall not apply where other acts require the preservation of such
information: <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; May 28, 2014>
1. When the purpose of collecting or utilizing the personal information
consented pursuant to Article 22(1), the proviso of Article 23(1) or Articles
24-2(1) and (2), or the relevant purpose as specified by any of the
subparagraphs of Article 22(2) has been attained;
2. When the period of retention and utilization of personal information
consented pursuant to Article 22(1), the proviso of Article 23(1) or Articles
24-2(1) and (2) has expired;
3. When the period of retention and utilization of personal information
subject to Article 27-2(2) iii in case of collecting or utilizing the personal
information without the consent of users pursuant to Article 22(2) has expired;
or
4. When its business has been closed.
(2) The information and communication service provider, etc. shall take
necessary measures, including the destruction of personal information and others
as prescribed by the Presidential Decree, to protect the personal information of
users who would not use the information and communications services for one
year; provided, however, that it does not apply when the said period is
otherwise fixed by other laws and regulations, or user’s request. <Newly
Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Dec. 1, 2015>
(3) The information and communication service provider, etc. shall inform the
users of the fact that their personal information will be destroyed, the expiry
- 22 -

date, the particulars of the said personal information, etc. as prescribed by the
Presidential Decree by means of email, etc. as prescribed by the Presidential
Decree. <Newly Inserted Dec. 1, 2015>
Section 3. User's Right
Article 30 (User's Right, etc.)

(1) Every user may at any time withdraw his/her consent given to the
information and communications service provider, etc. for the collection,
utilization or provision of the personal information.
(2) Every user may request the access to, or provision of, any of the following
items related with him/her, and if his/her personal information is found to be
erroneous, he/she may request the correction thereof:
1. The personal information of users retained by the information and
communications service provider, etc.;
2. The content of how the information and communications service provider,
etc. has utilized, or provided to a third party, the personal information of users;
or
3. The status at which the information and communications service provider,
etc. has obtained consent for the collection, utilization or provision of the
personal information.
(3) In case that a user withdraws his/her consent pursuant to paragraph (1),
the information and communications service provider, etc. shall, without delay,
take necessary measures, i.e., destroying his/her personal information collected
lest it should be restored or recovered. <Amended May 28, 2014>
- 23 -

(4) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall, upon
receiving a request for the access to, provision of, personal information pursuant
to paragraph (2), take necessary measures without delay.
(5) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall, immediately
upon receiving a request for the correction of erroneous personal information
pursuant to paragraph (2), correct the erroneous information or take necessary
measures, i.e., explaining why it failed to correct such information, and shall not
utilize or provide the relevant personal information until the correction thereof;
provided, however, that the same shall not apply where other acts require the
provision of such information.
(6) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall make the
withdrawal of consent pursuant to paragraph (1), or how to request access to,
provision of, or correction of errors in, the personal information much easier
than the method how to collect the personal information.
(7) The provisions of paragraphs (1) through (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis
to the business transferee, etc. In this case, the information and communications
service provider, etc. shall be deemed the business transferee, etc.
Article 30-2 (Notification of Personal Information Use Statement)

(1) The information and communications service provider, etc., which satisfies
the criteria as prescribed by the Presidential Decree, shall notify periodically the
use statement (including the provision pursuant to Article 24-2 and entrusting
processing of personal information pursuant to Article 25) of personal
information collected pursuant to Articles 22 and 23(1) proviso; provided,
however, that the same shall not apply where such personal information as
- 24 -

contact points to be notified was not collected. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(2) The type of information to be notified to the users pursuant to paragraph
(1), notification interval and method and other matters necessary to notify the
use statement shall be prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 31 (Legal Representative's Right)

(1) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall, when it
intends to obtain consent for the collection, utilization or provision of the
personal information from a minor of age below 14, obtain the consent therefor
from his/her legal representative. In this case, the information and
communications service provider may demand from the child the necessary
minimum information, including the name, etc. of the legal representative, so as
to obtain the consent.
(2) The legal representative may exercise user's right as for the personal
information of the relevant child pursuant to Articles 30 (1) and (2).
(3) The provisions of Article 30 (3) through (5) shall apply mutatis mutandis to
the withdrawal of consent, and the request for the access to, or the correction
of, the personal information by the legal representative pursuant to paragraph
(2).
Article 32 (Damages)

If a user suffers any damage caused by the violation of the provisions in this
Chapter on part of the information and communications service provider, etc.,
such user may claim for the damages against the information and
- 25 -

communications service provider, etc. In this case, the information and
communications service provider, etc. may not be released from the damages if
it fails to prove non-existence of its intention or negligence.
Article 32-2 (Claim for Statutory Damage)

(1) The user may, when all of the following subparagraphs are satisfied, claim
for compensation of considerable amount up to three million won in place of
damages pursuant to Article 32 against the information and communications
service provider, etc. within the period as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
In this case, the accused information and communications service provider, etc.
cannot evade the responsibility unless it proves non-existence of intention or
negligence: <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
1. Where the information and communications service provider, etc. violates
provisions in this Chapter intentionally or negligently; and
2. Where the personal information was lost, stolen, leaked, forged, altered or
damaged.
(2) The court may, upon the claim pursuant to paragraph (1), acknowledge a
reasonable amount of damages within the scope of paragraph (1) based upon the
examination of evidence and review of all the arguments during the proceedings.
(3) The user who has filed a lawsuit for damages pursuant to Article 32 may
change it to the claim for damages subject to paragraph (1) until the closing of
oral proceedings at the trial court. <Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 32-3 (Deletion and Blocking of Exposed Personal Information)
- 26 -

(1) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall exert itself
lest users’ personal information including resident registration numbers, bank
account numbers, credit card numbers, etc. should be exposed to public via
information and communications network. <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(2) Upon the request of the Korea Communications Commission or the Korea
Internet and Security Agency, the information and communications service
provider, etc. shall take necessary measures including deletion, blocking, etc. of
personal information exposed under paragraph (1).
[This Article Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016; Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Section 4. Deleted
Articles 33 through 40 Deleted 2)
CHAPTER Ⅴ PROTECTION OF THE YOUTH IN INFORMATION
AND COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS
Articles 41 through 44-10 Omitted
CHAPTER Ⅵ SECURING STABILITY OF INFORMATION
AND COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS, ETC.

Articles 45 through 46-2 Omitted
Article 46-3 Deleted

2) The provisions regarding the Personal Information Dispute Mediation Committee were deleted
on March 29, 2011 when the Personal Information Protection Act was promulgated.
- 27 -

Article 47 (Certification of Data Protection Management System)

(1) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may certify for the
purpose of securing the stability and reliability of the communications network
whether the person who has established and operated a consolidated
management system including the managerial, technical and physical safeguards
(hereinafter referred to as the “Data Protection Management System” or DPMS)
could satisfy the criteria subject to paragraph (4). <Amended Feb. 17, 2012;
Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1, 2015>
(2) Any person who falls on any of the following paragraphs as a
telecommunications business operator subject to Article 2 viii of the
Telecommunications Business Act and an information provider/intermediary
taking advantage of the telecommunications services of the said
telecommunications business operator shall obtain the certification pursuant to
paragraph (1). <Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Dec. 1, 2015>
1. Any person who has obtained the permission subject to Article 6(1) of
the Telecommunications Business Act and provides information and
communications service as prescribed by the Presidential Decree;
2. An integrated information and communications facility operator; or
3. Any person with the annual sales, revenue, etc. of more than 150 billion
won or the number of users daily average of one million people for the previous
three months, who satisfies the criteria as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(3) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may omit parts of
certification examination subject to paragraph (1) in case that the person in need
of certification has obtained the international standard certification of data
- 28 -

protection or taken other measures for data protection as prescribed by the
Ordinance of the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning. In this case, the
scope of omission in detail of the said certification examination shall be decided
and notified by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning. <Newly
Inserted Dec. 1, 2015>
(4) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may prescribe and
notify the certification criteria including the managerial, technical and physical
safeguards and other necessary matters for the DPMS certification subject to
paragraph (1). <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1, 2015>
(5) The duration of the DPMS certification subject to paragraph (1) shall be
three years; provided, however, that the person who has obtained the data
protection degree pursuant to Article 47-5(1) is deemed to have been certified
subject to paragraph (1) for the duration of such data protection degree.
<Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Dec. 1, 2015>
(6) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may delegate the
certification matters subject to paragraphs (1) and (2) of the following
subparagraphs to the Korea Information and Security Agency or other institution
designated by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning (hereinafter
referred to as the “DPMS Certification Agency”): <Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012;
Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1, 2015>
1. The certification examination to clarify the DPMS of a certification
applicant being in conformity with certification criteria subject to paragraph (4)
(hereinafter referred to as the “DPMS Certification Examination”);
2. Deliberation of the DPMS Certification Examination results;
3. Issuance and management of the DPMS Certificate;
- 29 -

4. Ex post facto management of the DPMS Certification;
5. Fostering and qualification management of the DPMS Certification
examiners; and
6. Other matters in relation to the DPMS Certification.
(7) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may designate the
institution to conduct the said certification examination (hereinafter referred to
as the “DPMS Examination Agency”) if necessary to conduct the said
certification task efficiently. <Newly Inserted Dec. 1, 2015>
(8) The Korea Information and Security Agency, the DPMS Certification
Agency and the DPMS Examination Agency shall conduct ex post facto
management at least once a year to enhance the effectiveness of the DPMS, and
notify its result to the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning. <Newly
Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1, 2015>
(9) The person who has obtained the DPMS certification pursuant to
paragraphs (1) and (2) may represent or promote the DPMS Certification as
prescribed by the Presidential Decree. <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; Dec. 1, 2015>
(10) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may withdraw the
PIMS certification when finding out any reason which falls on any of the
following subparagraph; provided, however, that the Minister shall cancel the
said certification in case of subparagraph 1: <Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012;
Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1, 2015>
1. Where the DPMS Certification has been obtained by fraud or other unjust
means;
2. Where the certification criteria subject to paragraph (4) fail to be satified;
or
- 30 -

3. Where the ex post facto management subject paragraph (8) has been
denied or obstructed.
(11) The method, procedure, scope and tariffs of certification subject to
paragraphs (1) and (2), the method and procedure of ex post facto management
subject to paragraph (8), the method and procedure of withdrawal of certification
subject to paragraph (10), other necessary matters shall be prescribed by the
Presidential Decree. <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; Dec. 1, 2015>
(12) Necessary matters for the designation criteria, procedure, duration, etc. of
the DPMS Certification Agency and the DPMS Examination Agency shall be
prescribed by the Presidential Decree. <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; Dec. 1, 2015>
[The Whole Article Amended Jun. 13, 2008.]
Article 47-2 (Withdrawal, etc. of Designation of DPMS Certification
Agency and DPMS Examination Agency)

(1) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may withdrawal the
designation of the DPMS Certification Agency and the DPMS Examination
Agency, or suspend a whole or part of the DPMS operations for the period not
exceeding one year when the juridical person or association designated as such
pursuant to Article 47 falls on any of the following subparagraphs; provided,
however, that the Minister shall withdraw the said designation in case of
subparagraphs 1 and 2: <Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1,
2015>
1. Where the designation of the DPMS Certification Agency or DPMS
Examination Agency has been obtained by fraud or other unjust means;
2. Where the certification or certification examination has been conducted
- 31 -

during the period of suspension of the said operation;
3. Where the certification or certification examination has not been conducted
with justifiable reasons;
4. Where the certification or certification examination has been conducted in
violation of Article 47(11); or
5. Where the designation criteria Article 47(12) fail to be satified.
(2) Necessary matters for the designation withdrawal and suspension of
operation, etc. subject to paragraph (1) shall be prescribed by the Presidential
Decree.
[The Whole Article Amended Jun. 13, 2008; Heading Amended Dec. 1, 2015]
Article 47-3 (Certification of Personal Information Management System)

(1) The Korea Communications Commission may certify for the purpose of
carrying out systemic and sustainable personal information protection activities
in the communications network whether the person who has established and
operated a consolidated management system including the managerial, technical
and physical safeguards (hereinafter referred to as the “Personal Information
Management System” or PIMS) could satisfy the criteria subject to paragraph
(2).
(2) The Korea Communications Commission may prescribe and notify the
certification criteria including the managerial, technical and physical safeguards
and other necessary matters for the PIMS certification subject to paragraph (1).
(3) Articles 47(6) through (12) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the PIMS
agencies, ex post facto management, etc. In this case, paragraphs (1) and (2)
shall read paragraph (1). <Amended Dec. 1, 2015>
- 32 -

(4) Articles 47-2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the designation withdrawal,
etc. of the PIMS Certification Agency.
[This Article Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Effective Jun. 2, 2016]
[The previous Article 47-3 moved to Article 47-4 Feb. 17, 2012]
Article 47-4 (Data Protection of Users)

(1) The government may advise to the users to observe by establishing
necessary standards for the data protection of users, and take necessary
measures, i.e., checking the weak points and providing technological assistance,
so as to prevent the incidents and block the dissemination thereof.
(2) through (4) Omitted
Article 47-5 (Grant of Data Protection Management Degree)

(1) The person who has obtained the DPMS certification pursuant to Article
47 may be granted the data protection management degree by the Minister of
Science, ICT and Future Planning to enhance the consolidated corporate data
protection management level and secure the reliability of data protection services
from users. <Amended Mar. 23, 2013>
(2) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may delegate the grant
of degree matters subject to paragraph (1) to the Korea Information and
Security Agency. <Amended Mar. 23, 2013>
(3) The person who has been granted the data protection management degree
pursuant to paragraph (1) may represent or promote the said data protection
management degree.
(4) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may withdraw the
- 33 -

degree granted as such when finding out any reason which falls on any of the
following subparagraph; provided, however, that the Minister shall cancel the
said degree in case of subparagraph 1: <Amended Mar. 23, 2013; Dec. 1, 2015>
1. Where the data protection management degree has been granted by fraud
or other unjust means; or
2. Where the degree criteria subject to paragraph (5) fail to be satisfied.
(5) The criteria for grant of degree, the method, procedure and tariffs of grant
of degree subject to paragraph (1), the duration of degree, the method and
procedure of withdrawal of degree subject to paragraph (4), and other necessary
matters shall be prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
[This Article Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012; Effective Jun. 2, 2016]
Articles 48 through 48-4 Omitted
Article 49 (Protection of Secrets, etc.)

No one is allowed to damage the information of other persons or infringe
upon, steal or leak the secrets of other persons, which are processed, stored or
transmitted via the information and communications networks.
Article 49-2 (Prohibition of Collection of Personal Information by Means
of Deceptive Activities)

(1) No one shall collect, or entice other person to provide with, the personal
information of other person by means of deceptive activities in the information
and communications networks.
(2) Any information and communications service provider shall report to the
- 34 -

Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning, the Korea Communications
Commission or the Korea Information and Security Agency immediately upon
finding out the violation of paragraph (1). <Amended Apr. 22, 2009; Mar. 22,
2016>
(3) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning, the Korea
Communications Commission or the Korea Information and Security Agency
shall, upon receiving the report pursuant to paragraph (2) or finding out the
violation of paragraph (1), take necessary measures prescribed in the following
subparagraphs: <Amended Apr. 22, 2009; Mar. 22, 2016>
1. Collecting and disseminating the violation of paragraph (1);
2. Forecasting or warning of similar violations; and
3. Emergency measures to prevent present and further violations including
request for blocking the access paths or request for notification of users’
information exposed to the violations under paragraph (1) to the information and
communications service provider.
(4) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission may order the information and communications
service provider, prior to taking measures subject to paragraph (3) iii, to take
necessary measures including sharing information in relation to deceptive
activities via information and communications networks among service providers.
<Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 50 (Restrictions on Transmitting Advertisement Information Made
for Profit)
- 35 -

(1) Anybody, who intends to transmit via electronic transmission media any
advertisement information made for profit, shall obtain the prior explicit consent
of the relevant addressee; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to
any of the following subparagraphs: <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
1. Where somebody, who collects directly from the addressees the contact
points through transactions of goods and services, intends to transmit the
advertisement information made for profit within the period as prescribed by the
Presidential Decree regarding the same kind of goods, etc. processed by himself
and traded with the receiver; and
2. Where a call center operator subject to the Act Regarding Visiting Sales,
etc. solicits over the telephone with his/her voice after informing the addressee
of the sources of personal information.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), anybody, who intends to transmit via
electronic transmission media any advertisement information made for profit,
shall not transmit advertisement information made for profit if the addressee
expresses refusal of such information or withdraw prior consent.
(3) Anybody, who intends to transmit any advertisement information made for
profit via electronic transmission media to the addressee during the hours from
9:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. the next day, shall obtain the separate prior consent of
the relevant addressee in spite of paragraph (1); provided, however, that the
same shall not apply to the media as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(4) Anybody, who transmits advertisement information made for profit via
electronic transmission media, shall indicate concretely the matters stated in the
following subparagraphs in such a manner as prescribed by the Presidential
Decree:
- 36 -

1. The name and contact points of the sender; and
2. Other matters regarding the measure and methods to easily indicate the
refusal of, or withdrawal of consent to, such information.
(5) Anybody, who transmits advertisement information made for profit via
electronic transmission media, shall not take any measure specified in the
following subparagraphs:
1. Measures to avoid and hinder the refusal or withdrawal of consent of the
addressee of advertisement information;
2. Measures to automatically generate the contact points of addressee i.e., by
combining numbers, codes or letters into new telephone numbers or e-mail
addresses;
3. Measures to automatically register telephone numbers or e-mail addresses in
order to transmit advertisement information made for profit;
4. Measures to conceal the identity of the sender of advertisement information
or the source of advertisement transmission; or
5. Various measures to induce reply by deceiving the addressee for the purpose
to transmit advertisement information made for profit.
(6) Anybody, who transmits advertisement information for profit via electronic
transmission media, shall take necessary measures in such a manner as
prescribed by the Presidential Decree lest the addressee should be charged the
monetary cost incurred when telephoning a message to refuse, or withdraw the
consent of, such information.
(7) Anybody, who transmits advertisement information for profit via electronic
transmission media, shall, when the addressee expresses prior consent pursuant
to paragraph (1), or refusal to receive or withdrawal of consent to receive
- 37 -

pursuant to paragraph (2), inform to the addressee the result after processing
prior consent, refusal to receive or withdrawal of consent as prescribed by the
Presidential Decree.
(8) Anybody, who has obtained the consent pursuant to paragraphs (1) or (3),
shall confirm periodically whether the addressee really consented to receive such
advertisement information as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
[This Article Wholly Amended May 28, 2014; Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 50-2 Deleted <May 28, 2014>
Article 50-3 (Entrusting Transmission of Advertisement Information
Made for Profit)

(1) Anybody, who entrusts other person with a task to transmit advertisement
information made for profit, shall control and supervise him/her lest the trustee
should violate Article 50. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(2) Anybody, who is entrusted by a person with a task to transmit
advertisement information made for profit pursuant to paragraph (1), shall be
deemed an employee of such person in compensating the damage caused by
violating the relevant acts related with such task.
Article 50-4 (Restrictions on Information Transmission Services, etc.)

(1) The information and communications service provider may take measures to
refuse to provide the relevant services in any of the following subparagraphs:
1. Where obstacles occur or are expected to occur in providing services owing
to transmitting or receiving advertisement information;
- 38 -

2. Where users would not want to receive advertisement information; or
3. Deleted <Amended May 28, 2014>
(2) The information and communications service provider, which intends to take
measures to refuse pursuant to paragraph (1) or (4), shall include such
provisions as how to refuse the relevant services in an end-user agreement
with the user of such services. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(3) The information and communications service provider, which intends to take
measures to refuse pursuant to paragraph (1) or (4), shall notify such fact to
interested parties including the user of such services; provided, however, that
the prompt notification is required without delay after taking such measures in
case of impossibility of prior notice. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(4) When a service provided to users based on an agreement with the
information and communications service provider is used to transmit
advertisement information made for profit in violation of Articles 50 or 50-8, its
provider shall refuse to provide such service or explore ways necessary to fix
the weak points of the information and communications networks or services.
<Newly Inserted May 28, 2014>
Article 50-5 (Installation of Advertisement Programs for Profit, etc.)

The information and communications service provider, which intends to show
up advertisement information made for profit or install the programs to collect
personal information in the users' computer or other data processing devices as
prescribed by the Presidential Decree, shall obtain the consent of users. In this
case, it shall notify the usage of such programs and the method how to delete.
- 39 -

Article 50-6 (Distribution of Softwares to Block the Transmission of
Advertisement Programs Made for Profit)

(1) The Korea Communications Commission may develop and distribute
softwares and computer programs by which the addressee can conveniently
block or report the advertisement information made for profit transmitted in
violation of Article 50.
(2) The Korea Communications Commission may provide necessary support to
the relevant public institutions, corporations, associations, etc. in order to
promote the development and distribution of softwares and computer programs
to block and report pursuant to paragraph (1).
(3) The Korea Communications Commission may advise the information and
communications service provider to take such necessary measures as
development of technologies, education, public relations, etc. for the protection of
addressees when the services of the information and communications service
provider are used to transmit the advertisement information made for profit in
violation of Article 50.
(4) Necessary matters for the development and distribution pursuant to
paragraph (1) and the support pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be prescribed by
the Presidential Decree.
Article 50-7 (Restrictions on Posting Advertisement Information Made for
Profit)

(1) Anybody, who intends to post any advertisement information made for profit
on the Internet homepage, shall obtain prior consent of the webmaster or
homepage manager; provided, however, that the same does not apply to a
- 40 -

bulletin board which anybody has an easy access and may post messages
without authorization.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), anybody, who intends to post any
advertisement information made for profit on the Internet homepage, shall not
post advertisement information made for profit if the webmaster or homepage
manager expresses explicit refusal of posting such information or withdraw prior
consent.
(3) A system operator or administrator of the Internet homepage may take such
measures as deleting the advertisement information made for profit which is
posted in violation of paragraph (1) or (2).
[This Article Wholly Amended May 28, 2014]
Article 50-8 (Prohibition of Transmission of Advertisement Information
for Illegal Act)

Nobody shall transmit advertisement information regarding goods or services
prohibited by this Act or other acts via the information and communications
networks.
Article 51 (Restrictions on Outflow of Material Information into Foreign
Countries)

(1) The government may have each information and communications service
provider or the relevant user of information and communications services take
measures necessary to prevent material information regarding the domestic
industry, economy, science and technology, etc. from being flowed out of Korea
into foreign countries via the information and communications networks.
(2) The scope of material information referred to in paragraph (1) shall be as
- 41 -

follows:
1. Security information related with the national security and major policy
information; or
2. Information regarding state-of-the-art technologies or equipment developed
domestically.
(3) The government may have each information and communications service
provider processing the information referred to any of the subparagraphs of
paragraph (2) take the following measures: <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
1. Establishing systemic and technological devices to prevent improper
utilization of the information and communications networks;
2. Taking systemic and technological measures to block the illegal destruction
or manipulation of information; or
3. Taking measures to prevent the leakage of material information acquired in
the course of processing information by the information and communications
service provider.
Article 52 (Korea Information and Security Agency)

(1) The government shall establish the Korea Information and Security Agency
(hereinafter referred to as "KISA") to implement efficiently such policies as to
enhance the information and communications networks (excluding the
establishing, improving and managing such networks), as to promote the safe
usage, and as to support the international cooperation and going abroad related
with broadcasting and communications.
(2) KISA shall be a juridical person.
(3) KISA shall conduct the business referred to in the following subparagraphs:
- 42 -

<Amended Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jun. 22, 2015>
1. To survey and research into legal regimes, policies and systems for the
utilization and protection of the information and communications networks, and
the international cooperation and going abroad related with broadcasting and
communications;
2. To do research and analysis of statistics related with the utilization and
protection of the information and communications networks;
3. To analyze negative effects of informatization and to research into
countermeasures;
4. To conduct public relations, education and training for the utilization and
protection of the information and communications networks;
5. To secure data protection in the information and communications networks,
and to achieve technological development and standardization related with the
Internet address resources;
6. To help establish the policy for the data protection industries, and to
conduct related technological development and training of human resources;
7. To implement and support the assessment, certification, etc. of data
protection including the DPMS certification and the assessment and certification
of data protection system;
8. To do research into effective measures for data protection, and to support
the development and distribution of data protection technologies;
9. To support the operation of the Dispute Mediation Committee and to operate
the Reporting Center for Personal Information Infringement;
10. To do counseling and process claims regarding the transmission of
advertisement information and the Internet advertisement;
- 43 -

11. To deal with and analyze causes of the incidents infringing upon the
information and communications networks, and to operate the incident response
system;
12. To manage the authentication of electronic signature pursuant to Article
25(1) of the Electronic Signature Act;
13. To support the efficient operation of the Internet and the promotion of
utilization thereof;
14. To help protect the stored information of the Internet users;
15. To support the service policy related with the Internet;
16. To protect users in the Internet, and to help flow and disseminate sound
information;
17. To conduct business regarding the Internet addresses under the Act on the
Internet Resources;
18. To support operation of the Internet Address Dispute Mediation Committee
pursuant to Article 16 of the Act on the Internet Resources;
19. To support operation of the Mediation Committee pursuant to Article 25(7)
of the Act on the Promotion of Data Protection Industry;
20. To assist the international cooperation, going abroad and overseas public
relations related with broadcasting and communications;
21. Other activities incidental to the business of subparagraphs 1 through 20;
and
22. Other tasks prescribed by this Act, and other acts and regulations to be
conducted by KISA, or entrusted by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future
Planning and the Minister of Interior, the Korea Communications Commission, or
the head of other administrative agencies;
- 44 -

(4) The government may make contributions to cover expenses necessary for
the operation of KISA.
(5) The provisions regulating the incorporated foundation in the Civil Act shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the matters not prescribed by this Act with respect
to KISA.
(6) Other person than KISA shall not use the name of the Korea Information
and Security Agency.
(7) Other matters necessary to operate, and conduct business of, KISA shall be
prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
CHAPTER VII COMMUNICATIONS BILLING SERVICES
Articles 53 - 61 Omitted
CHAPTER VIII INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
Article 62 (International Cooperation)

In performing the function stated in the following subparagraphs, the
government shall cooperate with other states or international organizations:
1. Cross-border transfer of personal information and data protection;
2. Protection of the youth in the information and communications network;
3. Prevention of the incidents threatening the safety of information and
communications network; and
4. Other activities to ensure safe and sound utilization of information and
communications services.
- 45 -

Article 63 (Protection of Cross-Border Transfer of Personal Information)

(1) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall not enter
into any international contract of which contents violate the provisions of this
Act with respect to the personal information of users.
(2) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall obtain the
consent of users when they intend to provide (including being subject to
inquiry), entrust processing, store (hereinafter referred to as “transfer” in this
Article) the personal information of such users to abroad; provided, however,
that, if it is necessary to perform the contract for providing information and
communications services and to enhance users convenience, etc., the provisions
regarding the consent of users subject to entrusting processing and storing
personal information abroad may not apply in case of disclosing under Article
27-2(1), or notifying to users by means as prescribed by Presidential Decree like
email, all items of subparagraphs of paragraph (3). <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
(3) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall, when they
intend to obtain the consent pursuant to paragraph (2), notify the user in
advance of the whole matters stated in the following subparagraphs:
1. The items of personal information to be transferred;
2. The state to which personal information will be transferred, the date and
time of transfer and the method thereof;
3. The name (referring to the company name and the contact points of the
officer in charge of data protection in case of a juridical person) of a person
who will be provided with the personal information; and
4. The purpose of utilization, and the period of retention and utilization, of
- 46 -

personal information on the part of a person who will be provided with the
personal information.
(4) The information and communications service provider, etc. shall take the
protective measures as prescribed by the Presidential Decree when they transfer
the personal information to abroad with the consent pursuant to paragraph (2).
CHAPTER IX SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Article 64 (Submission of Materials, etc.)

(1) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission may request the information and communications
service provider, etc. (in this Article, including any person to whom Article 67
applies mutatis mutandis) to submit relevant goods, documents, etc. in case any
of the following subparagraphs shall apply:
1. Where the violation of this Act is detected or knowingly suspected;
2. Where the violation of this Act is reported or any claim thereon is received;
or
3. Where such other cases as prescribed by the Presidential Decree are
necessary to protect the users.
(2) The Korea Communications Commission may request the information and
communications service provider, etc. to have access to, or submit, data with
respect to the name, address, resident registration number, period of utilization,
etc. of the person who transmitted advertisement information made for profit in
violation of this Act in order to take the measures stated in the following
subparagraphs against such transmitter:
- 47 -

1. Corrective measures pursuant to paragraph (4);
2. Imposition of fine for negligence pursuant to Article 76; and
3. Other measures amounting to the above-mentioned subparagraphs.
(3) When the information and communications service provider, etc. fails to
submit materials pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), or it is deemed to have
violated this Act, the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the
Korea Communications Commission may have its officials enter the business
place of the information and communications service provider, etc. and other
concerned persons related with breach of the relevant laws to inspect its current
business operations and examine ledger and books, or other documents, etc.
<Amended Mar. 29, 2011; Mar. 23, 2013; Mar. 22, 2016>
(4) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission may order that the information and communications
service provider, etc. in violation of this Act should take necessary corrective
measures, and demand such information and communications service provider,
etc., who has been ordered to do so, to make such fact public. In this case,
such necessary matters as the method how to make it public, the criteria and
procedure thereof, etc. shall be prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(5) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission may, when it ordered necessary corrective
measures pursuant to paragraph (4), make the fact public. In this case, such
necessary matters as the method how to make it public, the criteria and
procedure thereof, etc. shall be prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(6) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission shall, when it requests the relevant information and
- 48 -

communications service provider, etc. to submit or have access to data, etc.
pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3), notify in writing (including the electronic
message) of the reason for request, legal grounds, time limit of submission
thereof or the date and time to have access thereto, the content of data to be
submitted or accessed in detail.
(7) In case of inspection pursuant to paragraphs (3), the inspection plan
including the inspection date and time, reasons for inspection, particulars to be
inspected shall be notified to the relevant information and communications
service provider, etc. at least seven days before the scheduled inspection date;
provided, however, that the same does not apply in case of emergency or when
it deems such prior notification inappropriate to attain the inspection purpose
because of probable destruction of evidences.
(8) The officials, who conduct the inspection pursuant to paragraph (3), shall
carry certificates showing their authority, produce them to persons concerned,
and deliver them the document containing officials' names, inspection hours,
purposes thereof, etc.
(9) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission shall, when it received, had access to, or inspected
the data, etc. pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (3), notify in writing the relevant
information and communications service provider, etc. of the inspection result (in
case of making an order to take corrective measures subsequent to the
inspection, including such order).
(10) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission shall, for the purpose of request of submission or
inspection of data, etc. pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (4), may ask the head of
- 49 -

KISA for technical advices and other necessary support.
(11) Any request of submission of, access to, or inspection of, data, etc.
pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (4) shall be made within the minimum scope
necessary to implement this Act, and shall not be misused for other purposes.
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 64-2 (Preservation and Destruction of Materials, etc.)

(1) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission shall not provide to a third party the documents,
materials, etc. submitted or collected pursuant to Article 64 nor make them
public, if and when it is requested by the relevant information and
communications service provider, etc. to preserve such materials.
(2) In case the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission received the materials submitted via the information and communications networks, or made them digitalized, it shall take
systemic and technological security measures lest the personal information, trade
secrets etc. should be leaked out.
(3) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission shall destroy immediately the documents, materials,
etc. submitted or collected pursuant to Article 64, if there occurs a case
applicable to any of the following subparagraphs except otherwise specifically
provided in other acts. The same shall apply to the person to whom the
Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea Communications
Commission delegates or entrusts the whole or part of its authority pursuant to
Article 65:
- 50 -

1. Where the purpose for which the request for submission of materials, visit
and inspection, order to take corrective measures, etc. take place pursuant to
Article 64 has been attained;
2. Where an administrative judgment is filed in disobedience of the order to
take corrective measures pursuant to Article 64(4), or, in case of the
administrative lawsuit, the relevant administrative dispute settlement proceedings
have been closed;
3. Where the fine for negligence is levied pursuant to Article 76(4) and there
is no objection thereto until the period of objection is over pursuant to Article
76(5); or
4. Where any objection is raised against the imposition of fine for negligence
pursuant to Article 76(4) and the non-litigation proceedings of the competent
court with jurisdiction are over.
Article 64-3 (Imposition, etc. of Penalty Surcharge)

(1) In case an action is in violation of any of the following subparagraphs, the
Korea Communications Commission may impose the penalty surcharge3)
amounting to not more than three percent (3/100) of total sales related with such
violation on the wrong-doing information and communications service provider,
etc.. the penalty surcharge of not more than 100 million won may be imposed to
the violator of subparagraph 6: <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; May 28, 2014; Mar. 22,
2016>
1. To collect personal information without obtaining the consent of a user in
violation of Article 22(1) including the case of application mutatis mutandis
3) In this Act, the penalty surcharge means the administrative penalty.
- 51 -

pursuant to Article 67;
2. To collect personal information which is most likely to infringe upon the
right and interest, or the privacy, of an individual without obtaining the consent
of the subject in violation of Article 23(1) including the case of application
mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 67;
3. To utilize personal information in violation of Article 24 including the case
of application mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 67;
4. To provide personal information to a third party in violation of Article 24-2
including the case of application mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 67;
5. To entrust handling of personal information without obtaining the consent of
a user in violation of Article 25(1) including the case of application mutatis
mutandis pursuant to Article 67;
5-2. To allow negligent management, supervision or education under Article
25(4), including the case of application mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 67,
to cause the trustee in violation of Chapter IV;
6. To leave the personal information of a user lost, stolen, leaked, forged,
altered or damaged, and fail to take measures required by Articles 28(1) ii
through v including the case of application mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article
67;
7. To collect the personal information of a minor of age below 14 without
obtaining the consent of his/her legal representative in violation of Article 31(1)
including the case of application mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 67; or
8. To provide the personal information of users abroad without obtaining their
consent thereto in violation of the main sentence of Article 63(2).
(2) In case the penalty surcharge is imposed pursuant to paragraph (1), if such
- 52 -

information and communications service provider, etc. denies to submit data for
the calculation of sales or submits false data, its sales amount may be estimated
on the basis of financial statements and other accounting information of the
information and communications service provider, etc. with a similar size, and
the business data including the number of subscribers, tariff table of users, etc.
provided, however, that, in such a case of no sales report at all or the difficulty
to calculate the amount of sales as prescribed by the Presidential Decree, the
penalty surcharge of not more than 400 million won may be imposed to such
operator.
(3) When imposing the penalty surcharge pursuant to paragraph (10, the Korea
Communications Commission shall take the particulars stated in the following
subparagraphs into consideration:
1. The substance and status of violations;
2. The duration and times of violations; and
3. The size of profit acquired out of violations.
(4) The penalty surcharge pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be assessed with the
provision of paragraph (3) taken into consideration, but the detailed criteria and
procedure for the assessment of penalty surcharge shall be prescribed by the
Presidential Decree.
(5) When the person, who is required to pay the penalty surcharge pursuant to
paragraph (1), fails to pay the penalty surcharge until the due date, the Korea
Communications Commission shall collect the additional charge amounting to six
percent per annum (6% p.a.) of such penalty surcharge for the period from the
following day of the due date.
(6) When the person, who is required to pay the penalty surcharge pursuant to
- 53 -

paragraph (1), fails to pay the penalty surcharge until the due date, the Korea
Communications Commission shall press for the payment by designating the
extended period. If and when the person fails to pay the penalty surcharge and
the additional charge for the extended period pursuant to paragraph (5), the
Korea Communications Commission finally shall collect the penalty surcharge
and the additional charge likewise by the disposition for recovery of the
National Tax arrears.
(7) In case the penalty surcharge imposed pursuant to paragraph (1) is refunded
owing to the court judgment, etc., the additional fee in the amount of six
percent per annum (6% p.a.) of such penalty surcharge to be refunded shall be
paid for the period from the payment date of penalty surcharge to the refund
date.
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 64-4 (Hearings)

The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission shall hold hearings in case any of the following
subparagraphs shall apply:
1. Where it intends to withdraw the designation of the certification agency
pursuant to Article 9(2);
2. Where it intends to withdraw the designation of the identification agency
pursuant to Article 23-4(1);
3. Where it intends to cancel the DPMS certification pursuant to Article 47(10)
including the case of application mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 47-3(3);
4. Where it intends to withdraw the designation of the DPMS Certification
- 54 -

Agency pursuant to Article 47-2(1) including the case of application mutatis
mutandis pursuant to Article 47-3(4);
5. Where it intends to cancel the data protection management degree pursuant
to Article 47-5(4); or
6. Where it intends to cancel the registration pursuant to Article 55(1).
[This Article Newly Inserted Dec. 1, 2015; Effective Jun. 2, 2016]
Article 65 (Delegation and Entrustment of Authority)

(1) The authority of the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the
Korea Communications Commission under this Act may be delegated or
entrusted in part to the head of its administrative agency under the control of
the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the head of the Regional
Post Agency in such a manner as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(2) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning may entrust the project
to promote the utilization of the information and communications networks, etc.
pursuant to Article 13 to the National Information Society Agency (NIA)
established pursuant to Article 14 of the Nation’s Informatiztion Framework Act
in such a manner as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(3) The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission may entrust doing job to request the submission
of, and inspect, the materials pursuant to Articles 64(1) and (2) to KISA in such
a manner as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(4) The provision of Article 64(8) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
employees of KISA who are subject to paragraph (3).
- 55 -

Article 65-2 Deleted
Article 66 (Confidentiality, etc.)
Any person who is or was engaged in the business stated in the following
subparagraphs shall not leak secrets acquired while performing his/her duties to
any other person, or use such secrets for other purposes than the initial duties;
provided, however, that the same shall not apply where other acts specifically
prescribe otherwise:
1. Deleted
2. Certification of DPMS under Article 47;
2-2. Certification of PIMS under Article 47-3;
3. Assessment of the data protection system under Article 52(3) iv;
4. Deleted
5. Mediation of any dispute conducted by the defamation dispute mediation
panel under Article 44-10.
Article 67 (Application mutatis mutandis to Broadcasting Service
provider)

(1) The provisions of Chapter IV shall apply mutatis mutandis to the person
who falls under Article 2 iii Items a through e and Article 2 vi, ix, xii and xiv
of the Broadcasting Act, and would collect, use and provide to a third party
personal information of audience and viewers. In this case, the "information and
communications service provider" and the "information and communications
service provider, etc." shall be deemed the "person who falls under Article 2 iii
Items Ga through Ma and Article vi, ix, xii and xiv of the Broadcasting Act,"
- 56 -

and the "user" shall be deemed the "audience and viewers," respectively.
(2) The provisions of Articles 22, 23, 23-2 through 23-4, 24, 24-2, 26, 26-2, 27,
27-2, 27-3, 28, 28-2, 29, 30, 30-2 and 31 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
trustee as prescribed in Article 25(1).
[This Article Newly Inserted Feb. 17, 2012]
Article 68 Deleted <Mar. 22, 2010>
Article 68-2 Deleted <Jun. 22, 2015>
Article 69 (Legal Fiction of Officials in Applying Penal Provisions)

The officers and employees of NIA and KISA, who are conducting the job
entrusted by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission pursuant to Articles 65(2) and (3), shall be deemed
government officials in the application of Articles 129 through 132 of the
Criminal Act.
Article 69-2 (Accusation)

(1) When the Korea Communications Commission deems any of the
subparagraphs of Article 64-3(1) to be applicable, the Commission may accuse
the breaching information and communications service provider, etc. to the
investigation authorities including the prosecution office.
(2) The Korea Communications Commission may recommend the information
and communications service provider, etc. in violation of this Act in relation to
personal information protection to take a disciplinary measure of the person
responsible therefor (including a representative and/or director and officer
- 57 -

responsible in charge). In this case, the person who has received such
recommendation shall be respectful of it and notify the Korea Communications
Commission of the result. <Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
CHAPTER X PENAL PROVISIONS
Article 70 (Penal Provisions)

(1) Any person who has defamed other person by alleging openly facts via the
information and communications networks with the purpose of slandering
him/her shall be subject to imprisonment with prison labor for not more than 3
years or by a fine not exceeding 30 million won. <Amended May 28, 2014>
(2) Any person who has defamed other person by alleging openly false facts
via the information and communications networks with the purpose of slandering
him/her shall be subject to imprisonment with prison labor for not more than 7
years or the suspension of qualification for not more than 10 years, or by a fine
not exceeding 50 million won.
(3) The offense stated in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be indicted against
the will expressed by the victim.
Article 70-2 (Penal Provisions)

Any person who has relayed or distribute malicious programs in violation of
Article 48(2) shall be subject to imprisonment with prison labor for not more
than 7 years or by a fine not exceeding 70 million won.
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
- 58 -

Article 71 (Penal Provisions)

(1) Any person referred to in the following subparagraphs shall be subject to
imprisonment with prison labor for not more than 5 years or by a fine not
exceeding 50 million won:
1. A person who has collected the personal information of users without the
consent of users in violation of Article 22(1) including the case of application
mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
2. A person who has collected the personal information likely to excessively
infringe upon the right, interest and privacy of the individual without the
consent of users in violation of Article 23(1) including the case of application
mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
3. A person who has utilized the personal information of users, provided such
personal information to a third party, or received such personal information
knowingly for profit or unjust purposes in violation of Articles 24, 24-2(1) and
(2) or 26(3) including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
4. A person who has entrusted handling of the personal information without
the consent of users in violation of Article 25(1) including the case of
application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
5. A person who has damaged, infringed upon or leaked the personal
information of users in violation of Article 28-2(1) including the case of
application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
6. A person who has received the personal information for profit or unjust
purposes knowing such information leaked out in violation of Article 28-2(2);
7. A person who has provided or utilized the personal information without
- 59 -

taking necessary measures in violation of Article 30(5) including the case of
application mutatis mutandis under Articles 30(7), 31(3) and 67;
8. A person who has collected the personal information of a minor below 14
without the consent of his/her legal representative in violation of Article 31(1)
including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
9. A person who has conveyed or distributed malicious programs in violation
of Article 48(2);
10. A person who has caused troubles in the information and communications
networks in violation of Article 48(3); and
11. A person who has damaged the information of other person, or infringed
upon, stolen or leaked the secrets of other person in violation of Article 49.
(2) An attempted crime of paragraph (1) ix shall be punished. <Newly Inserted
Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 72 (Penal Provisions)

(1) Any person referred to in the following subparagraphs shall be subject to
imprisonment with prison labor for not more than 3 years or by a fine not
exceeding 30 million won: <Amended Jan. 20, 2015; Mar. 27, 2015>
1. A person who has infiltrated the information and communications networks
in violation of Article 48(1);
2. A person who has collected the personal information of other person in
violation of Article 49-2(1);
2-2. A person who has transmitted the advertisement information in violation of
Article 50-8 taking advantage of large-scale catastrophic situation subject to
- 60 -

14(1) of the Framework Act on the Management of Disasters and Safety;
3. A person who has done business without registration required by Article
53(1);
4. A person who has lent money, or has arranged, intermediated, solicited and
promoted such transaction by conducting action applicable to any of the
following Items:
a. To do transactions of communications billing services by pretending to
sell or provide the goods or services, or exceeding the real sales, or to let
others do so on his/her behalf; or
b. To purchase the goods or services at a discount which were bought or
used by the user of communications billing services just after such user was
induced to buy or use such goods or services by means of the communications
billing services.
5. A person who has leaked the secrets to other person acquired while
performing his/her duties, or utilized such secrets for other purpose than the
initial duties in violation of Article 66.
(2) Deleted <Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 73 (Penal Provisions)

Any person referred to in the following subparagraphs shall be subject to
imprisonment with prison labor for not more than 2 years or by a fine not
exceeding 20 million won: <Amended May 28, 2014; Mar. 22, 2016>
1. A person who has lost, stolen, leaked, forged, altered or damaged the
personal information of users by failing to take such technological and
- 61 -

managerial measures as prescribed in Articles 28(1) ii through v including the
case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
1-2. A person who fails to destroy personal information in violation of Article
29(1) including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
2. A person who has provided media materials harmful to the youth for profit
without indicating the harmful nature in violation of Article 42;
3. A person who has transmitted to the youth, or exhibit publicly without
taking any measure off-limits to the youth the information to advertize the
media materials harmful to the youth in violation of Article 42-2;
4. A person who has used the information of users for other purposes than
filing civil or criminal lawsuits;
5. A person who has not observed the order of the Korea Communications
Commission pursuant to Articles 44-7(2) and (3);
6. A person who has not preserved the relevant materials in violation of the
order pursuant to Article 48-4(3);
7. A person who has enticed other person to provide with personal information
in violation of Article 49-2 (1); or
8. A person who has not observed the order pursuant to Article 61.
Article 74 (Penal Provisions)

(1) Any person referred to in the following subparagraphs shall be subject to
imprisonment with prison labor for not more than 1 year or by a fine not
exceeding 10 million won: <Amended Feb. 17, 2012; May 28, 2014>
1. A person who has put any label on goods, or sold such goods bearing such
label or displayed such goods for the purpose of selling them in violation of
- 62 -

Article 8 (4);
2. A person who has distributed, sold, rented, or openly displayed lascivious
codes, letters, sounds, images or video clips in violation of Article 44-7(1) i;
3. A person who has repeatedly sent codes, letters, sounds, images or video
clips inciting fears and uneasiness to other person in violation of Article 44-7(1)
iii;
4. A person who has taken measures in violation of Article 50(5);
5. Deleted <May 28, 2014>
6. A person who has transmitted advertisement information in violation of
Article 50-8; or
7. A person who has not registered the change of the registry nor reported
business transfer, or the merger and succession of business in violation of
Article 53(4).
(2) The offense stated in paragraph (1) iii shall not be indicted against the will
expressed by the victim.
Article 75 (Joint Penal Provisions)

If a representative of a corporation, or the agent, manager or other employee
of a corporation or an individual violated the provisions of Articles 71 through
73 or 74 (1) with respect to the business of such corporation or individual, the
actor shall be punished, but also the corporation or individual shall be subject to
a fine prescribed in the relevant Article; provided, however, that the same shall
not apply where such corporation or individual was not negligent in taking due
care and supervisory duty to do the relevant business.
- 63 -

Article 75-2 (Confiscation and Additional Imposition of Fine)

The monies or other profits acquired by a person who committed any of the
crimes set forth in Article 71(1) i through viii, Article 72(1) ii and Article 73 i,
i-2, vii in relation to the relevant violations may be confiscated, and, if such
confiscation is impossible, its equivalent amount may be imposed additionally. In
this case, such confiscation or additional imposition my be levied in addition to
other punishment. <Newly Inserted Mar. 22, 2016>
[This Article Effective Sep. 23, 2016]
Article 76 (Fine for Negligence)

(1) A person who is referred to in the following subparagraphs and abets other
person to do the action applicable to Items 7 through 11 shall be subject to a
fine for negligence not exceeding 30 million won: <Amended Mar. 29, 2011; Feb.
17, 2012; Mar. 23, 2013; May 28, 2014; Jun. 22, 2015; Dec. 1, 2015; Mar. 22,
2016>
1. A person who has denied services in violation of Articles 22-2(2) or 23(3)
including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
1-2. A person who has failed to take measures necessary for the protection of
personal information of users including methods of consent to, and withdrawal
from, the authorized access in violation of Article 22-2(3) including the case of
application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
2. A person who collects and uses resident registration numbers in violation of
Article 23-2(1) or fails to take necessary measures in violation of Article
23-2(2) including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
2-2. A person who has failed to notify or report to users, the Korea
- 64 -

Communications Commission and KISA in violation of Article 27-3(1) including
the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67, or delays exceeding
24 hours to notify or report with no justifiable reasons;
2-3. A person who has failed to explain or deceptively explained subject to
Article 27-3(3);
3. A person who has failed to take technological and managerial measures as
prescribed in Articles 28(1) i and vi including the case of application mutatis
mutandis under Article 67);
4. A person who has failed to destroy personal information in violation of
Article 29(2) including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
5. A person who has failed to take necessary measures in violation of Articles
30(3), (4) and (6) including the case of application mutatis mutandis under
Articles 30(7), 31(3) and 67);
5-2. A person who has failed to notify the detailed statement on the use of the
personal information in violation of the main sentence of Articles 30-2(1)
including the case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
6. Deleted <May 28, 2014>
6-2. A person who has failed to report the designation of the chief privacy
officer in violation of Articles 45-3 (1);
6-3. A person who has failed to obtain the DPMS certification in violation of
Articles 47 (2);
7. A person who has transmitted advertisement information made for profit in
violation of Articles 50 (1) through (3);
8. A person who has failed to indicate advertisement information or indicated
fraudulently in violation of Articles 50 (4) or (5);
- 65 -

9. A person who has got the addressee charged the cost in violation of Article
50 (6);
9-2. A person who has failed to confirm the consent to receive in violation of
Articles 50(8);
10. A person who has installed the programs without obtaining the consent of
users in violation of Article 50-5;
11. A person who has posted advertisement information made for profit on the
Internet homepage in violation of Article 50-7 (1) or (2); or
12. A person who has not observed the order to take corrective measures
delivered by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea
Communications Commission pursuant to Article 64(4) in violation of this Act.
(2) A person referred to in the following subparagraphs shall be subject to a
fine for negligence not exceeding 20 million won: <Amended Mar. 22, 2016>
1. A person who has failed to make public or notify the users of entrusting
the handling of personal information in violation of Article 25(2) including the
case of application mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
1-2. A person who has re-entrusted to a third person without obtaining the
consent of the initial information and communications service provider, etc. in
violation of Article 25(7) including the case of application mutatis mutandis
under Article 67;
2. A person who has failed to notify the users of transferring the personal
information in violation of Articles 26(1) and (2) including the case of application
mutatis mutandis under Article 67;
3. A person who has failed to designate the officer in charge of data
protection in violation of Article 27(1) including the case of application mutatis
- 66 -

mutandis under Article 67;
4. A person who has failed to make public the personal information policy
statement in violation of Article 27-2(1) including the case of application mutatis
mutandis under Article 67; or
5. A person who has provided the personal information of users abroad
without disclosing all the items of subparagraphs of Article 63(3) or informing
users of such fact in violation of the proviso of Article 63(2).
(3) A person referred to in the following subparagraphs shall be subject to a
fine for negligence not exceeding 10 million won: <Amended Apr. 5, 2011; Feb.
17, 2012; Jun. 22, 2015; Dec. 1, 2015; Mar. 22, 2016>
1. Deleted <Jun. 22, 2015>
2. Deleted <Jun. 22, 2015>
2-2. A person who has conducted the identification operations without
appropriate designation of the identification agency in violation of Article
23-3(1);
2-3. A person who has failed to notify to users, or report to the Korea
Communications Commission, the recess of the identification operations pursuant
to Article 23-3(2) or the repeal of the identification operations pursuant to
Article 23-3(3);
2-4. A person who continues to conduct identification operations in spite of the
suspension of identification operations or withdrawal of designation of the
identification agency pursuant to Article 23-4(1);
2-5. A person who fails to entrust processing personal information to a trustee
in writing in violation of Article 25(6) including the case of application mutatis
mutandis under Article 67;
- 67 -

3. A person who has failed to designate the officer in charge of youth
protection in violation of Article 42-3(1);
4. A person who has failed to keep information in custody in violation of
Article 43;
5. A person who has failed to insure the information and communications
facilities in violation of Article 46 (2);
6. Deleted <Dec. 1, 2015>;
7. A person who has made fraudulent promotion on the result of authentication
of the data protection management system in violation of Articles 47(9) and
47-3(3);
8. Deleted
9. Deleted
10. A person who has failed to inform the user of software in violation of
Article 47-4(3);
11. A person who has not observed the order of correction pursuant to Article
48-2(4);
12. A person who has obstructed, rejected or dodged the entry and inspection
of business pursuant to Article 48-4 (4);
12-2. A person who has failed to observe the order of the Minister of Science,
ICT and Future Planning or the Korea Communications Commission in violation
of Article 49-2(4).
12-3. A person who has failed to inform to the addressee the result after
processing prior consent, refusal to receive or withdrawal of consent in violation
of Article 50(7).
12-4. A person who fails to take necessary measure in violation of Article
- 68 -

50-4(4).
13. A person who has used the name of KISA in violation of Article 52(6);
14. A person who has failed to report the recess, closure or dissolution of
business in violation of Article 53(4);
15. A person who has failed to report the general terms and conditions of
business in violation of Article 56(1);
16. A person who has failed to take managerial and technological measures in
violation of Article 57(2);
17 through 21. Omitted 4)
22. A person who has failed to submit related goods and documents, etc.
pursuant to Article 64(1) or submitted false goods and documents, etc.;
23. A person who has denied the access to data and request of data production
pursuant to Article 64(2); or
24. A person who has rejected, obstructed or dodged the entry and inspection
of business pursuant to Article 64(3).
(4) The fine for negligence stated in paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be
imposed and collected by the Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning or
the Korea Communications Commission as prescribed by the Presidential Decree.
(5) Any person who is dissatisfied with a fine for negligence imposed pursuant
to paragraph (4) may file an objection with the Minister of Science, ICT and
Future Planning or the Korea Communications Commission within 30 days from
the day of notification of such disposition.
(6) If any person who has been subject to a fine for negligence pursuant to
paragraph (4) filed an objection pursuant to paragraph (5), the Minister of
4) These are violators in relation to communications billing services.
- 69 -

Science, ICT and Future Planning or the Korea Communications Commission
shall promptly notify the competent court of the fact, and the competent court
shall, upon receiving the notification thereof, put the case on trial in accordance
with the Non-Contentious Litigation Procedure Act.
(7) If any person fails to file an objection within the period under paragraph (5)
and would not pay the fine for negligence, the fine for negligence in question
shall be collected likewise by the disposition for recovery of the national taxes
in arrears.
<Act No. 6360, January 1, 2001>

ADDENDA

Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

This Act shall enter into force on July 1, 2001.

Articles 2 and 3. Omitted
Article 4 (Transitional Measures Regarding Application of Penal
Provisions)

The application of the penal provisions to any act committed prior to the
enforcement of this Act shall be governed by the previous provisions.
Article 5. Omitted
Article 6 (Relations to Other Acts and Regulations)

If other acts and regulations cite the former "Act on the Promotion, etc. of
- 70 -

Utilization of Information System" or its provisions at the time of enforcement
of this Act and if there exist corresponding provisions thereto in this Act, this
Act or the corresponding provisions in this Act shall be regarded as being cited.
ADDENDA

Omitted for the period from December 2001 to December 2008.
<Act No. 9637, July 23, 2009>

ADDENDA

Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

This Act shall enter into force on the day when 3 months elapse after its
promulgation for the establishment of the Korea Internet and Security Agency.
Articles 2 and 3 Omitted
Article 4 (Amendment to Other Acts) Omitted
Article 5 (Relations to Other Acts and Regulations)

If other acts and regulations cite the former "Act on Promotion of Information
and Communications Network Utilization and Data Protection, etc." or its
provisions at the time of enforcement of this Act and if there exist
corresponding provisions thereto in this Act, this Act or the corresponding
provisions in this Act shall be regarded as being cited.
<Act No. 10138, March 17, 2010>

ADDENDUM

- 71 -

This Act shall enter into force on the day of promulgation.
ADDENDA

<Act No. 10165, September 23, 2010>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation.
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted
Article 6 (Amendment to Other Acts)

(9) The part of the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications
Network Utilization and Data Protection, etc. shall be amended as follows:
Article 68 shall be deleted.
Article 7 Omitted
ADDENDA

<Act No. 10465, September 30, 2011>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)
This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation [in line with the enforcement the Personal Information Protection
Act].
- 72 -

Articles 2 through 5 Omitted
Article 6 (Amendment to Other Acts)

(11) The part of the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications
Network Utilization and Data Protection, etc. shall be amended as follows: [. . .]
the Minister of Public Administration and Security, the Minister of Knowledge
and Economy or the Korea Communications Commission shall read the Minister
of Knowledge and Economy or the Korea Communications Commission; and the
Minister of Public Administration and Security or the Korea Communications
Commission shall read the Korea Communications Commission, respectively.
Article 7 Omitted
ADDENDA

Omitted for the period from April 2011 to September 2011.
ADDENDA

<Act No. 11322, August 18, 2012>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation; provided, however, that the revised provisions of Articles 45, 45-2,
45-3, 46-3, 47, 47-2, 47-3, 47-5, 52(3) vii, 66 and 76(3) vi through ix shall enter
into force one year after its promulgation.
- 73 -

Article 2 (Transitional Measures Regarding the Restriction of Collection
and Use of Resident Registration Number)

(1) The information and communications service provider, who has provided
membership application method by means of resident registration number at the
time of enforcement of this Act, shall destroy its resident registration number
data within two years therefrom; provided, however, that the same shall not
apply to any of the subparagraphs of Article 23-2(1).
(2) The failure to destroy the resident registration number data within the
period prescribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed in violation of the revised
provision of Article 23-2(1).
Article 3 (Transitional Measures Regarding the Repeal of Data Protection
Safety Diagnosis)

Omitted

Article 4 (Transitional Measures Regarding the Authentication of
Personal Information Protection Management System)

Omitted

Article 5 (Transitional Measures Regarding Fine for Negligence)

The application of the fine for negligence to any act committed prior to the
enforcement of this Act shall be governed by the previous provisions.
ADDENDA
- 74 -

<Act No. 11690, March 23, 2013>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

(1) This Act shall enter into force on the day of promulgation.5)
(2) Omitted
Articles 2 through 5 Omitted
Article 6 (Amendment to Other Acts)

(687) The part of the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications
Network Utilization and Data Protection, etc. shall be amended as follows: [. . .]
the Minister of Knowledge and Economy shall read the Minister of Science, ICT
and Future Planning.
<Act No. 12681, May 28, 2014>

ADDENDA

Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

(1) This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation; provided, however, that the revised provisions of Articles 44(3),
44-5 and 76(1) vi shall enter into force on the day of promulgation.
Article 2 (Transitional Measures Regarding Penalty Surcharge and Penal
Provisions)

The application of the penalty surcharge and penal provisions to any act

5) This amendment was in line with the enforcement of the newly amended Government
Organization Act.
- 75 -

committed prior to the enforcement of this Act shall be governed by the
previous provisions.

<Act No. 13344, July 22, 2015>

ADDENDA

Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation.
Article 2 (Exemplary Application of Administrative Disposition)

The amendments of Article 55(1) shall apply to the administrative disposition
on the violations prior to the enforcement of this Act.
ADDENDA

<Act No. 13520, December 1, 2015>
Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation; provided, however, that the amendments of Articles 29(2) and (3)
shall enter into force on the day of promulgation.
Article 2 (Exemplary Application of Destruction, etc. of Personal
Information)

The amendments of Article 29(2) and (3) shall apply to the personal
- 76 -

information collected and transferred prior to the entry into force of the said
amendments.
Article 3 (Exemplary Application of Omission of DPMS Certification
Examination)

The amendments of Article 47(3) shall apply to the person who applied for
the DPMS certification prior to the enforcement of this Act, and has undergone
the said procedure.
Article 4 (Transitional Measures Regarding DPMS Certification)

The imposition of the fine for negligence on the violations prior to the
enforcement of this Act shall be subject to the previous penal provisions.

<Act No. 14080, March 22, 2016>

ADDENDA

Article 1 (Enforcement Date)

This Act shall enter into force on the day when 6 months elapse after its
promulgation; provided, however, that the amendments of Articles 22(2), 76(1) i
and 76(1) i-2 shall enter into force when one year elapses after promulgation;
the amendments of Articles 32(2) and (3), 32-2(3) on July 25, 2016; the
amendment of Article 52(4) on the day of promulgation, respectively.
Article 2 (Exemplary Application of Damages)

The amendments of Articles 32(2), 32(3) and 32-2(3) shall apply to the claim
- 77 -

for damages arising out of the loss, theft, leakage, forgery, alteration of, or
damage to, personal information after the entry into force of the same
amendments.
Article 3 (Transitional Measures Regarding Guide of Data Exposed to
Violations)

The information and communications service provider shall establish the
facilities to send guide message to users pursuant to the amendment of Article
49-2(3) within six months after the promulgation of this Act.
Article 4 (Transitional Measures Regarding Penal Provisions)

In case of application of penal provisions against violations prior to the entry
into force of this Act, the previous provisions shall apply.
Article 5 (Amendment to Other Act)

The part of the Internet Address Resources Act shall be amended as
follows:
Of the first sentence of Article 15(2), “Article 71 i” shall be “Article 71(1) i”,
and “Article 76(1) i through v” shall be “Article 76(1) i through v (excluding
Article 76(1) i-2)”

- 78 -

