Legislation

Subsidiary

Agreements

Case Law

Conventions

Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE LAW RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND FOR AN
EFFICIENT PROCEDURE FOR THE REGISTRATION, CONTROL AND ADMINISTRATION THERE OF ; TO
AMEND THE CUSTOMS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 235) AND THE HIGH COURT OF THE PROVINCES
(SPECIAL) PROVISIONS ACT, NO. 10 OF 1996; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

Short title.

1. This Act may be cited as the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36

of 2003.

Appointment2.
and powers
of the
DirectorGeneral.

PART I
ADMINISTRATION.
(1) There shall be a person to be or to act as the
Director-General of Intellectual Property of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter referred to as the “Director-General”).
(2) The Director-General shall-

(a) be vested with the power of
implementation of the provisions of this Act,
the control and superintendence of the
registration and administration of Industrial
Designs, Patents, Marks and of any other
matter as provided by the Act, and the
supervision and control of all persons
appointed for or engaged in, the
implementation of the provisions of this Act ,
and
(b) take all necessary steps to promote and
encourage national awareness of the subject
of Intellectual Property including copyright
and related right by organisation of
exhibitions,
contests,
seminars
and
publications and by promoting and
encouraging the establishment and proper
functioning of organisation or societies to
protect and administer copyright and related
rights under Part II of the Act.

(3) The Director-General shall comply with the general
policy of the government with respect to subject of
intellectual properly and with any general or special
directions issued by the Minister in relation to such
policy.
Director and 3.
Deputy
Directors.

(1) There may from time to time be appointed a fit and
proper person or persons, to be or to act as Director of
Intellectual Property and such other Deputy Directors
for the proper implementation and administration of
the provisions of this Act.

(2) Any person so appointed may exercise, perform
and discharge any power, duty or function expressly
conferred or imposed upon the Director or the Deputy
directors, as the case may be, and may, subject to the
directions of the Minister and under the authority and
control of the Director-General, exercise, perform and
discharge any powder, duty or function conferred or
imposed upon the Director-General by or under this
Act.
(3) There shall be appointed such other officers and
servants as may be necessary for the administration of
the Act.
Office and 4.
Maintenance
of registers.

(1) There shall be an office called the National
intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Office”) Such office shall be the
sole office in Sri Lanka for the registration and
administration of Industrial designs, patents, marks
and any other matter as provided by the Act.
(2) All registers required to be kept and maintained
under the provisions of this Act shall be kept and
maintained under the supervision of the DirectorGeneral at the Office and such registers shall be the
only legally recognized registers in Sri Lanka for the
registration of industrial designs, patents, marks and
any other matter as provided by the Act.
PART II

CHAPTER I
COPYRIGHT
Interpretation.5. For the purposes of this Part-

“audiovisual work” means a work that consists of a series of
related images which impart the impression of motion, with or
without accompanying sounds, susceptible of being made visible,
and where accompanied by sounds susceptible of being made
audible ,
“author” means the physical person who has created the work ,

“broadcasting” means the communication of a work, a
performance or a sound recording to the public by wireless
transmission, including transmission by satellite ;

“collective work” means a work created by two or more physical
persons at the initiative and under the direction of a physical
person or legal entity, with the understanding that it will be
disclosed by the latter person or entity under his or its own name
and that the identity of the contributing physical persons will not
be indicated ;

“communication to the public” means the transmission to the
public by wire or without wire of the images or sounds, or both,
of a work, a performance or a sound recording including the
making available to the public of a work, performance or sound
recording in such a way that members of the public may access
them from a place and at a time individually chosen by them;

“computer” means an electronic or similar device having
information processing capabilities ;
“computer program” is a set of instructions expressed in words,
codes, schemes or in any other form, which is capable, when
incorporated in a medium that the computer can read, of causing
a computer to perform or achieve a particular task or result ;
“economic rights” means the rights referred to in section 9 ;

“expression of folklore’ means a group oriented and tradition
based creation of groups or individuals reflecting the expectation
of the community as an adequate expression of its cultural and
social identity, its standards and values as transmitted orally, by
imitation or by other means, including :
(a) folk tales, folk poetry, and folk riddles ;

(b) folk songs and instrumental folk music ;
(c) folk dances and folk plays ;

(d) productions of folk arts in particular, drawings,
paintings, carvings, sculptures, pottery, terracotta,
mosaic, woodwork, metal ware, jewellery, handicrafts,
costumes, and indigenous textiles ;
“infringement” means an act that violated any right protected
under this Part ;
“moral rights” means rights referred to in section 10 ;

“performers” means singers,’ musicians, and other persons who
sing, deliver, declaim, play in, or otherwise perform, literary or
artistic works or expressions of folklore ;

“photographic work” means the recording of light or other
radiation on any medium on which an image is produced or from
which an image may be produced, irrespective of the technique
(chemical, electronic or other) by which such recording is made, a
still picture extracted from an audiovisual work shall not be
considered a “photographic work” but a part of the audiovisual
work concerned ;

“producer” of an audiovisual work or a sound recording means
the physical person or legal entity that undertakes the initiative
and responsibility for the making of the audiovisual work or
sound recording ;
“public display” means the showing of the original or a copy of a
work(a) directly ;

(b) by means of a film, slide, television image or
otherwise on screen ;
(c) by means of any other device or process ; or

(d) in the case of an audiovisual work, the showing of
individual images non-sequentially at a place or places
where persons outside the normal circle of a family
and its closest social acquaintances are or can be
present, irrespective of whether they are or can be
present at the same place and time or at different
places or times, and where the work can be displayed
without communication to the public within the
meaning of the definition of the expression
“Communication to the Public”;
“public lending” means the transfer of the possession of the
original or a copy of a work or a sound recording for a limited
period of time for nonprofit making purposes, by an institution,
the services of which are available to the public, such as a public
library or archives ;
“public performance” means-

(a) in the case of a work other than an audiovisual
work, the recitation, playing, dancing, acting or
otherwise performing the work in public either directly
or by means of any device or process ;
(b) in the case of an audiovisual work, the showing of
images in sequence or the making of accompanying
sound audible in public ; and

(c) in the case of a sound recording, making the
recording sounds audible at a place or at places where
persons outside the normal circle of the family and its
closest acquaintances are or can be present,
irrespective of whether they are or can be present at
the same place and time, or at different places or
times, and where the performance can be perceived
without the need for communication to the public
within the meaning of the definition of the expression”
communication to the public” ;
“published” means a work or a sound recording –

(a) copies of which have been made available to the
public in a reasonable quantity for sale, rental, public
lending or for transfer of the ownership or the
possession of the copies; or
(b) which has been made available to the public by
means of an electronic system :

Provided that, in the case of a work, the making
available to the public took place with the consent of
the owner of the copyright, and in the case of a sound
recording, with the consent of, the producer of the
sound recording or his successor in title;
“rental” means the transfer of the possession of the original or a
copy of a work or sound recording for a limited period of time for
profit making purposes;

“reproduction” means the making of one or more copies of a
work or sound recording in any material form, including any
permanent or temporary storage of a work or sound recording in
electronic form ;
“sound recording” means any exclusively aural fixation of the
sounds of a performance or of other sounds, regardless of the
method by which the sounds are fixed or the medium in which
the sounds are embodied ; it does not include a fixation of
sounds and images, such as the sounds incorporated in an
audiovisual work ;
“work” means any literary, artistic or scientific work referred to in
section 6 ;

“work of applied art” means an artistic creation with utilitarian
functions or incorporated in a useful article, whether made by
hand or produced on an industrial scale ;

Works
Protected.

“work of joint authorship” means a work to the creation of which
two or more authors have contributed, provided the work does
not qualify as “a collective work”.
6.

(1) The following works shall be protected us literary,
artistic or scientific work (hereinafter referred to as
“works “) which are original intellectual creations in the
literary, artistic and scientific domain, including and in
particular”
(a) books, pamphlets, articles, computer
programs and other writings ;
(b) speeches, lectures, addresses, sermons
and other oral works ;

(c) dramatic, dramatic musical works,
pantomimes, choreographic works and other
works created for stage productions ;
(d) stage production of works specified in
paragraph (c) and expressions of folklore that
are apt for such productions ;
(e) musical works,
accompanying words ;

with

or

without

(f) audiovisual works ;

(g) works of architecture ;

(h) works of drawing, painting, sculpture,
engraving, lithography, tapestry and other
works of fine art ;
(j) photographic works ;

(k) works of applied art ;

(l) illustrations, maps, plans, sketches and
three dimensional works relative to
geography, topography, architecture or
science.
(2) The works specified in subsection (1) of this section
shall be protected by the sole fact of their creation and
irrespective of their mode or form of expression, as
well as of their content, quality and purpose.
Derivative
works.

7.

(1) The following shall also be protected as works:-

(a) translations, adaptations, arrangements
and other transformations or modifications of
works ; and

(b) collections of works and collections of
mere data (data bases), whether in machine
readable or other form, provided that such
collections are original by reason of the
selection, co-ordination or arrangement of
their contents.
(2) The protection of any work referred to in
subsection (1) shall be without prejudice to any
protection of a preexisting work incorporated in, or
utilized for, the making of such a work.
Works not
protected.

8. Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 6 and 7, no

protection shall be extended under this Part –

(a) to any idea, procedure, system, method of
operation, concept, principle, discovery or mere data,
even if expressed, described, explained, illustrated or
embodied in a work ;

(b) to any official text of a legislative, administrative or
legal nature, as well as any official translation thereof;
(c) to news of the day published, broadcast, or publicly
communicated by any other means
Economic
rights.

9.

(1) Subject to the provisions of sections 11 to 13 the
owner of copyright of a work shall have the exclusive
right to carry out or to authorize the following acts in
relation to the work –
(a) reproduction of the work ;
(b) translation of the work ;

(c) adaptation, arrangement
transformation of the work ;

or

other

(d) the public distribution of the original and
each copy of the work by sale, rental, export
or otherwise ;

(e) rental of the original or a copy of an
audiovisual work, a work embodied in a sound
recording, a computer program, a data base
or a musical work in the form of notation,
irrespective of the ownership of the original
or copy concerned ;
(f) importation of copies of the work, (even
where the imported copies were made with
the authorization of the, owner of the
copyright)

(g) public display of the original or a copy of
the work.
(h) public performance of the work ,
(j) broadcasting of the work and

(k) other communication to the public of the
work
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall
apply to both the entire work and a substantial part
thereof
(3) The rights of rental in terms of paragraph(e)of
subsection(1)shall not apply to rental of computer
programs when the program itself is not the essential
object of the rental
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph(d) of
subsection(1) the owner of a work or a copy of a work
lawful made or person authorized in that behalf such
owner is entitled without the authority of the owner of
the copy the copyright, to self or otherwise of dispose
of that copy.
Moral
Rights.

10.

(1) The author of a work shall independently of his
economic rights and even where he is no longer the
owner of those economic rights have the following
lights:-

(a) to have his name indicated prominently on
the copies an in connection with any public
use of this work as far as practicable.
(b) the right to use a pseudonym and not have
his name indicated on the copies and in
connection with any public use of his work.

(c) to object to any distortion mutilation or
other modification of or other derogatory
action in relation or his work which would be
prejudicial to his honour or reputation.
(2) No right mentioned in subsection (1) shall be
transmissible during the life time of the author,
however on the death of the author, the right to
exercise any oft those rights shall be transmissible by
testamentary disposition or by operation of law .
(3) The author may waive any of the moral rights
mentioned in subsection (1), provided that such a
waiver is in wilting and clearly specifies the right of
lights waived and the circumstances to which the
waiver applies.

Provided that where am waiver of the rights under
paragraph (c) of subsection (1) specifies the nature
and extent of the modification of other action in
respect of which the right is waived, subsequent to the
death of the author the physical person of legal entity
upon whom or which the moral rights have devolved
shall have the right to waive the said rights.
Fair use.

11.

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of
section 9 the fair use of a work, including such use by
reproduction in copies or by any other means specified
by that section for purposes such as criticism
comment news reporting, teaching (including multiple
copies for classroom use) scholarship or research shall
not be an infringement of copyright
(2) The following factors shall be considered in
determining whether the use made of a work many
particular case is fair use
(a) the purpose and character of the use
including whether such use is of a commercial
nature of is for non profit educational
purposes
(b) the nature of the copyrighted work ;

(c) the amount and substantiality of the
portion used in relation to the copyrighted
work as a whole ; and

(d) the effect of the use upon the potential
market for, or value of, the copyrighted work.
(3) The acts of fair use shall include the circumstances
specified in section 12.
Act of fair
use.

12.

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) of section 9 and subject to the
provisions of subsection (2) of this section, the private
reproduction of a published work in a single copy shall
be permitted without the authorization of the owner of
the copyright, where the reproduction is made by a
physical person from a lawful copy of such work
exclusively for his own personal purposes.
(2) The permission under subsection (1) of this section
shall not be extended to the reproduction(a) of a work of architecture in the form of a
building or other constructions ,

(b) in the form of reprography of the whole or
a substantial part of a book or of a musical
work in the form of notations ;
(c) of the whole or a substantial part of a data
base ;

(d) of a computer program, except as
provided in subsection (7) ; and

(e) of any work, in case the reproduction
would conflict with a normal exploitation of
the work or would otherwise unreasonably
prejudice the legitimate interests of the
owner of the copyright.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) of section 9, the reproduction, in the
form of a quotation, of a short part of a published
work shall be permitted without authorization of the
owner of copyright :

Provided that the reproduction is compatible with fair
practice and does not exceed the extent justified by
the purpose of such reproduction. The quotation shall
be accompanied by an indication of the source and the
name of the author, if his name appears in the work
from which the quotation is taken.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) of section 9, the following acts shall be
permitted without the authorization of the owner of
the copyright :”
(a) the reproduction of a short part of a
published work for teaching purposes by way
of illustration, in writing of sound of visual
recordings, provided that the reproduction is
compatible with fair practice and docs not
exceed the extent justified by the purpose of
such reproduction.

(b) the reprographic reproduction for face to
face teaching in any educational institution
the activities of which do not serve direct of
indirect commercial gain, of published
articles, other short works or short extracts of
works, to the extent justified by the purpose,
provided that the act of reproduction is an
isolated one occurring, if repeated, on
separate and unrelated occasions.
Provided however the source of the work
reproduced and the name of the author shall
be indicated as far us practicable on ail copies
made under this subsection
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) of section 9, any library or archives,
whose activities do not serve any direct or indirect
commercial gain may, without the authorization of the
owner of copyright, make a single copy of the work by
reprographic reproduction”

(a) where the work reproduced is a published
article, other short work or short extract of a
work, and where the purpose of the
reproduction is to satisfy the request of a
physical person :
Provided that-

(i) the library or archives is satisfied
that the copy will be used solely for
the purposes of study, scholarship or
private research,
(ii) the act or reproduction is an
isolated occurance, occurring if
repeated, on separate and unrelated
occasions ,

(b) where the copy is made in order to
preserve and, if necessary replace a copy, or
to replace a copy which has been lost,
destroyed or rendered unusable in the
permanent collection of another similar
library or archives
Provided that it is not possible to obtain such
a copy under reasonable conditions , and

Provided further that the act of reprographic
reproduction is an isolated occurance
occurring if repeated, on separate and
unrelated occasions
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a),
(h) and (j) of subsection (1) of section 9, and subject to
the condition that the source and the name of the
author is indicated as far as practicable, the following
acts shall be permitted in respect of a work without
the authorization of the owner of copyright(a) the reproduction in a newspaper of
periodical, manner of broadcasting of other
manner of communication to the public or an
article published in a newspaper of periodical
on current economic, political of religious
topics of a broadcast or communication
relating to the same, and such permission
shall not apply where the right to authorize
reproduction,
broadcasting
of
other
communication to the public is expressly
reserved on the copies by the owner of
copyright of in connection with broadcasting
or other communication to the public of the
work.

(b) for the purpose of reporting current
events,
the
reproduction
and
the
broadcasting or other communication to the
public of short excerpts of a work seen or
heard in the course of such events to the
extent that it is justified by the purpose of
such reproduction.

[12
12th November
, 2003 ]

Articles

Links

(c) the reproduction in a newspaper of
periodical, broadcasting of other manner of
communication to the public, of a political
speech, a lecture, address, sermon or other
work of a similar nature delivered in public, or
a speech delivered during legal proceedings,
to the extent that it is justified by reason of
the fact of providing current information.
(7)

(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in
paragraph (a) and (c) of subsection(1) of
section 9 reproduction in a single copy or the
adaptation of a computer program by the
lawful owner of a copy of that computer
program shall be permitted without the
authorization of the owner of copy right
provided that the copy or adaptation is
necessary.
(i) for use of the computer program
with a computer for the purpose and
extent for which the computer
program has been obtained.

(ii) for archival purposes and tot
replacement of the lawfully owned
copy of the computer program in the
event that the said copy of the
computer program is lost, destroyed
of rendered unusable.
(b) No copy or adaptation of a computer
program shall be used for any purpose other
than those specified in paragraph (a), and any
such copy or adaptation shall be destroyed in
the event that continued possession of the
copy of the computer program ceases to be
lawful.
(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f) of
subsection (1) of section 9, the importation of a copy
of a work by a physical person for his own personal
purposes shall be permitted without the authorization
of the owner of copyright.
(9) Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph
(g) of subsection (1) of section 9, the public display of
originals or copies of works shall be permitted without
the authorization of the owner of copyright :
Provided that the display is made other than by means
of a film, slide, television image or otherwise on screen
or by means of any other device or process :

Provided further, the work has been published or the
original or the copy displayed has been sold, given
away or otherwise transferred to another person by
the author or his successor in title.
(10) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Part,
the following shall not be an infringement of copyright
:-

(a) the performance of display of a work for
educational or teaching purposes by
government of non profit educational
institutions, in classrooms or similar places set
aside for education
Provided that, in the case of an audiovisual
work, the performance or the display of
individual images, is given by means of a
lawfully made top), or the person responsible
for the performance did not know or had no
reason to believe that the copy was not
lawfully made.

(b) the communication of a transmission
embodying a performance of display of a
work by the public reception of the
transmission on a single receiving apparatus,
of a kind commonly used in private homes,
unless –
(i) a direct charge is made to see or
hear the transmission ; or
(ii) the transmission thus received is
further transmitted to the public.
Duration of 13.
copyright.

(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3). (4)
and (5), the economic and moral rights shall be
protected during the life time of the author and for a
further period of seventy years from the date of his
death

(2) In the case of a work of joint authorship, the
economic and moral rights shall be protected during
the life of the last surviving author and for a further
period of seventy years from the date of the death of
the last surviving author.
(3) In the case of a collective work, other than a work
of applied art, and in the case of an audiovisual work,
the economic and moral rights shall be protected for
seventy years from the date on which the work was
first published, or failing publication within seventy
years from the making of the work.
(4) In the case of a work published anonymously or
under a pseudonym, the economic and moral rights
shall be protected for seventy years from the date on
which the work was first published :
Provided that, where the author’s identity is revealed
or is no longer in doubt before the expiration or the
said period, the provisions of subsection (1) or
subsection (2) shall apply, as the case may require.

(5) In the case of work of applied art, the economic
and moral rights shall be protected for twenty-five
years from the date of the making of the work

(6) Every period provided for under the preceding
subsections shall run to the end of the calendar year in
which it would otherwise expire.
Original
14.
ownership of
economic
rights.

(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3),(4)
and (5), of this section, the author who created the
work economic rights, shall be the original owner of
economic rights.

(2) In respect of a work of joint authorship, the to
authors shall be the original owners of the economic
rights If however a work of joint authorship consists of
parts that can be used separately and the author of
each part can be identified, the author of each part
shall be the original owner of the economic rights in
respect of the part that he has created.
(3) In respect of a collective work, the physical person
or legal entity at the initiative, and under the direction,
of whom of which the work has been created shall be
the original owner of the economic lights.

(4) In respect of a work created by an author employed
by a physical person of legal entity in the course of his
employment, the original owner of the economic rights
shall, unless provided otherwise by way of a contract,
be the employer It the work is created pursuant to a
commission, the original owner of economic lights
shall be unless otherwise provided in a contract, the
person who commissioned the work.

(5) In respect of an audiovisual work, the original
owner of the economic right shall be the producer,
unless otherwise provided in a contract The coauthors of the audiovisual work and the authors of the
pie existing works, included in or adapted for. the
making of the audiovisual work shall however,
maintain their economic rights in their contributions of
pre- existing works, respectively to the extent that
those contributions of pre existing works tan be the
subject of acts covered by their economic rights
separately from the audiovisual work.
Presumption 15.
of authorship
and of
representation
of the author.

(1) The physical person whose name is indicated as the
author on a work in the usual manner shall in the
absence of proof to the contrary be presumed to be
the author of the work . The provisions of this section
shall be applicable even if the name is a pseudonym,
where the pseudonym leaves no doubt as to the
identity of the author.
(2) The physical person or legal entity whose name
appears on an audio-visual work shall, in the absence
of proof to the contrary, be presumed to be the
producer of the said work.

Assignment 16.
or licence of
authors
rights.

(1) The owner of a copyright may-

(a) grant licence to a physical person or legal
entity to carry out all or any of the acts
relating to the economic rights referred to in
section 9 ;
(b) assign or transfer in whole or any part of
the economic lights referred to in section 9.

(2) Any assignment or transfer of an economic light,
and any licence to do such an act subject to
authorization by the owner of the copyright, shall be in
writing signed by the assignor arid the assignee,
transferor and the transferee or by the licensor and
the licensee as the case may be.
(3) An assignment or transfer in whole or in part of any
economic light or a licence to do an act subject to
authorization by the owner of copyright, shall not
include of be deemed to include the assignment of
transfer or licence in respect of any other rights not
expressly referred to therein.
CHAPTER II

Rights
17.
requiring
authorization
of
performers.

RELATED RIGHTS
[PROTECTION OF RIGHTS OF PERFORMERS,
PRODUCERS OF SOUND RECORDING AND
BROADCASTING ORGANIZATION]
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21, a performer
shall have exclusive right to carry out or to authorize
any of the following acts ”
(a) the broadcasting or other communication
to the public of his performance or a
substantial part thereof, except where the
broadcasting, or the other communication”
(i) is made from a fixation of the
performance, other than a fixation
made in terms of section 21 ; or

(ii) is a re-broadcasting, made or
authorized by the organisation initially
broadcasting the performance or
substantial part thereof ;
(b) the fixation of his unfixed performance or
substantial part thereof;

(c) the reproduction of a fixation of his
performance or substantial part thereof.
(2) Once the performer has authorized the
incorporation of his performance in a audiovisual
fixation, the provisions of subsection (1) shall have no
further application.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to
deprive performers of the right to enter into contracts
in respect of their performances on terms and
conditions more favourable to them.
(4) The rights under this section shall be protected
from the moment the performance takes place until
the end of the fiftieth calendar year following the year
in which the performance takes place.
Rights of
18.
producers of
sound
recordings.

(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21, a producer
of a sound recording shall have the exclusive right to
carry out or to authorize any of the following acts :(a) the direct or indirect reproduction of the
sound recording or substantial part thereof ;

(b) the importation of copies of the sound
recording or a substantial part thereof even
where such imported copies were made with
the authorisation of the producer ;
(c) the adaptation or other transformation of
the sound recording or a substantial part
thereof ;
(d) the rental of a copy of the sound recording
or a substantial part thereof, irrespective of
the ownership of the copy rented ;

(e) the sale or offering for sale to the public of
the original or copies of the sound recording
or substantial part thereof.
(2) The rights under subsection (1) of this section shall
be protected from the date of publication of the sound
recording until the end of the fiftieth calendar year
following the year of publication, or if the sound
recording has not been published, from the date of
fixation of the sound recording until the end of fiftieth
calendar year following the year of fixation.
Equitable
19.
remuneration
for use of
sound
recordings.

(1) where a sound recording published for commercial
purposes, or a reproduction of such sound recording,
is used directly for broadcasting or other form of
communication to the public, or is publicly performed,
a single equitable remuneration for the performer or
performers and the producer of the sound recording
shall be paid by the user.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed between the performer or
the producer, half of the sum received by the producer
under subsection (1) shall be paid by the producer to
any performer.

(3) The right to an equitable remuneration under this
section shall subsist from the date of publication of
the sound recording until the end of the fiftieth
calendar year following the year of publication, or if
the sound recording has not been published, from the
date of fixation of the sound recording until the end of
the fiftieth calendar year following the year of fixation.

Rights of
20.
broadcasting
organisation.

(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21. a
broadcasting organisation shall have the exclusive
right to carry out or to authorize any of following acts
:(a) the re-broadcasting of its broadcast or a
substantial part thereof;

(b) the communication to the public of its
broadcast or a substantial part thereof ;
(c) the fixation of its broadcast or a
substantial part thereof;

(d) the reproduction of a fixation of its
broadcast or a substantial part thereof.
(2) The rights under this section shall be protected
from the moment when the broadcasting takes place
until the end of the fiftieth calendar year following the
year in which broadcast takes place.
Limitations 21. Sections 17, 18, 19 and 20 shall not apply where the acts
on
referred to in those sections are related to –
protection.
(a) the use by a physical person exclusively for his own
personal purposes

(b) using short excerpts for repotting current events to
the extent justified by the purpose of providing
current information ;
(c) use solely for the purpose of face to face teaching
activities or for scientific research ;

(d) eases where, under copyright, a work can be used
without the authorization of the owner of copyright.
Enforcement 22.
of rights and
disputes
resolution.

(1) Any person who infringes or is about to infringe any
of the rights protected under this Part may be
prohibited from doing so by way of an injunction and
be liable to damages. The owner of such rights is
entitled to seek such other remedy as the court may
deem fit.
(2)

(a) The Court shall have power and
jurisdiction”

(i) to grant such injunctions to prohibit
the commission of any act of,
infringement or the continued
commission of such acts of
infringement of any right protected
under this Part ;

(ii)to order the impounding of copies
of works or sound recording
suspected of being made sold, tented
of imported without the authorization
of the owner of any right protected
under this Part where the making,
selling, renting of importation of
copies is subject to such authorization,
as well as the impounding of the
packaging of, the implements that
could be used for the making of, and
the documents, accounts or business
papers, referring to, such copies
(b) The Court shall in addition have the
jurisdiction to order the payment by the
infringer, of damages for the loss suffered as
a consequence of the act of infringement, as
well as the payment of expenses caused by
the infringement including legal costs The
amount of damages shall be fixed taking into
account inter alia, the importance of the
material and moral prejudice suffered by the
owner of the right, as well as the importance
of the infringer’s profits attributable to the
infringement Where the infringer did not
know or had no reasonable cause to know
that he or it was engaged in infringing
activity, the court may limit damages to the
profits of the infringer attributable to the
infringement or to pre established damages

(c) The Court shall have the authority to order
the destruction or other reasonable manner
of disposing of copies made in infringement
of any light protected under this Part if
available and then packaging outside the
channels of commerce in such a manner as
would avoid harm to the owner of the rights,
unless he requests otherwise. The provisions
of this section shall not be applicable to
copies and their packaging which were
acquired by a third party in good faith.
(d) Where there is danger that implements
may be used to commit or continue to
commit acts of infringement, the Court shall,
whenever and to the extent that it is
reasonable, order their destruction or other
reasonable manner of disposing of the same
outside the channels of commerce in such a
manner as to minimize the risks of further
infringements including surrender to the
owner of the rights.

(e) Where there is a danger that acts of
infringement may be continued, the court
shall make such orders as may be necessary
prevent such acts being committed.
(f) The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act
relating to infringement and remedies shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to rights protected
under this Part.
(g) Any person who infringes or attempts to
infringe any of the rights protected under this
Part shall be guilty of an offence and on
conviction be liable to any penalty as
provided for in Chapters XXXVIII and XLI of
the Act.
(3)

(a) The Director-General may on an
application being made in the prescribed
form and manner by a person aggrieved by
any of his rights under this Part being
infringed or in any other manner affected,
and after such inquiry as he thinks fit
determine any question that may be
necessary or expedient to determine in
connection with such application and such
decision shall be binding on the parties
subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of
this subsection.

(b) Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the Director-General may make an appeal to
the Court and unless the Court issues an
interim order staying the operation of the
decision of the Director-General, such
decision shall continue to be in force until the
matter is decided by the Court.
Measures,
remedies
and
sanctions
against
abuses in
respect of
technical
means.

23.

(1) The following acts shall be considered unlawful and
in the application of section 22 shall be assimilated to
infringements of the rights of the owner of copyright:”

(i) the manufacture or importation for sale or
rental of any device or means specifically
designed or adapted to circumvent any
device or means intended to prevent or
restrict reproduction of a work or to impair
the quality of copies made (the latter device
or means hereinafter referred to as “copy
protection or copy management device or
means”) ;
(ii) the manufacture of importation for sale or
rental of any device or means that is
susceptible to enable or assist the reception
of an encrypted program, which is broadcast
or otherwise communicated to the public,
including reception by satellite, by those who
are not entitled to receive the program.

(2) In the application of section 22, any illicit device
and means mentioned in subsection (1) of this section
shall be assimilated to infringing copies of works.

(3) The owner of copyright in a work shall also be
entitled to the damages for infringement provided for
in section 22 where”

(a) authorized copies of the work have been
made and offered for sale or rental in an
electronic form combined with a copy
protection or copy management device of
means, and a device or means specifically
designed or adapted to circumvent the said
device or means, made or imported for safe
or rental.
(b) the work is authorized for inclusion in an
encrypted program, broadcast of otherwise
communicated to the public, including by
satellite, and a device or means enabling or
assisting the reception of the program by
those who are not entitled to receive the
program made of imported, for sale or rental.

Protection 24.
of
expressions
of folklore
and
damages.

(1) Subject to the provision of subsection (4) of this
section expressions of folklore shall be protected
against”
(a) reproduction ,

(b) communication to the public by
performance, broadcasting, distribution by
cable or other means ,

(c) adaptation, translation and other
transformation, when such expressions are
made either for commercial purposes or
outside their traditional or customary context.
(2) The rights conferred by subsection (1) of this
section shall not apply where the acts referred to
therein are related to –

(a) the use by a physical person exclusively for
his own personal purposes;
(b) using short excerpts for reporting current
events to the extent justified by the purpose
of providing current information ;
(c) the use solely for the purpose of face to
face teaching or for scientific research ;

(d) instances referred to in sections 11 and
12, where a work can be used without the
authorization of the owner of copyright.
(3) In all printed publications, and in connection with
any communication to the public of any identifiable
expression of folklore, its source shall be indicated in
an appropriate manner and in conformity with fair
practice by mentioning the community or place from
where the expression utilized has been derived .
(4) The right to authorize acts referred to in subsection
(1) of this section shall subject to the payment of a
prescribed fee, vest in a Competent authority to be
determined by the Minister.

(5) The money collected under subsection (4) shall be
used for purposes of cultural development.

(6) Any person who, without the permission of the
Competent Authority referred to in subsection (4),
uses an expression of folklore in a manner not
permitted by this section shall be in contravention of
the provisions of this section and shall be liable to
damages, and be subject to an injunctions and any
other remedy as the Court may deem fit to award in
the circumstances.
Registration 25.
of society
administration
of rights by
societies
control over
the rights and
submission of
report.

(1)

(a) No person of body of persons corporate or
unincorporate shall, after the coming into
operation of this Act, commence of carry on
the business of issuing or granting licences in
respect of any right protected under this Part
except under of in accordance with, the
provisions of paragraph (c) or this subsection :
Provided that the owner of such light shall, in
his individual capacity, continue to have the
right to grant licences in respect of his own
rights Where such owner is a member of a
society registered under this section the grant
of such licences shall be consistent with his
obligations as a member of such society.

(b) Any body of persons corporate of
unincorporate which fulfils such conditions as
may be prescribed, apply to the DirectorGeneral for permission to engage in the
business specified in paragraph (a) and
register the society .

(c) The Director-General may having regard to
the interests of the owners of the rights
protected under this Part, the interests and
convenience of the public and in particular of
the groups of persons who are most likely to
seek licences in respect of relevant rights and
the ability and professional competence of

the applicant to grant permission to
commence or carry on business specified in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and register
such person or body of persons as a collective
society subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed :
Provided that the Director-General shall not
ordinarily register more than one such society
to do business in respect of the same class of
lights.

(d) The Director-General may, it he is satisfied
that the society is being managed in a
manner detrimental to the interests of the
owners of rights concerned, cancel or
suspend the registration of the society and
the permission to commence or carry on
business as specified in paragraph (a) of this
subsection, after such inquiry as may be
necessary
(e) The Director-General may by order cancel
or suspend the registration of such society
and the permission to carry on business
pending inquiry for such period not
exceeding one year as may be specified in
such order under paragraph (d) of this
subsection.
(f) Where the Director- General suspends the
registration of a society, he shall thereupon
appoint an administrator to carry out the
functions of the society
(2)

(a) Subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed –

(i) a society may accept from an owner
of the rights exclusive authorization to
administer any right under this Part by
the issue of licences or collection of
licence tees or both , and
(ii) an owner of the rights shall have
the right to withdraw such
authorization without prejudice to the
rights of the society undo any contract
between such owner and society

(b) It shall be competent for a society to enter
into any agreement with any foreign society
of
organization
administering
rights
corresponding to the lights protected under
this Part, and to entrust to such foreign
society of organization the administration in
any foreign country of rights administered by
the said society in Sri Lanka, or for
administering in Sri Lanka the rights
administered in a foreign country by such
foreign society of organization
Provided that no such society or organization
shall permit any discrimination in regard to
the terms of a licence or the distribution of
fees collected in connection with the rights
protected under this Part and in such foreign
country

(c) Subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, a society may –

(i) issue licences in respect of any
lights protected under this Part ;

(ii) collect fees in pursuance of such
licences ;

(iii) distribute such fees among owners
of rights after making deductions for
its own expenses ;

(iv) perform any other functions
consistent with the provisions of
subsection (4).
(3)

(a) Every society shall be subject to the
collective control of the owners of rights
under this Part whose rights are administered
in such a manner as may be prescribed in
order to ”

(i) obtain the approval of such owners
of rights for its procedures of
collection and distribution of fees ;

(ii) obtain their approval for the
utilization of any amounts collected as
fees for any purpose other than
distribution to the owner of rights ;
and
(iii) provide to such owners regular, full
and detailed information concerning
all its activities, in relation to the
administration of their rights.
(b) All fees distributed among the owners of
rights shall, as far as may be, be distributed in
proportion to the actual use of their works.
(4)

(a) Every Society shall submit to the DirectorGeneral such returns as may be prescribed.

(b) The Director-General may call for any
report or records of any society for the
purpose of satisfying himself that the fees
collected by the society in respect of the
rights administered by it are being utilized or
distributed in accordance with the provisions
of this Part.
Scope of
26.
application.

(1) The provisions of this Part in respect of the
protection of literary, artistic or scientific works shall
apply to –

(a) works of authors who are nationals of, or
have their habitual residence in, Sri Lanka ;
and
(b) works first published in Sri Lanka, works
first published in another country and
hereupon published in Sri Lanka, within thirty
days from such publication, irrespective of
the nationality or residence of the author.

(2) The provisions of this Part shall also apply to works
that are protected in Sri Lanka by virtue of, and in
accordance with, any international convention or any
international agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party.
Protection 27.
of
performers.

(1) The provisions of this Part in respect of protection
of performers shall apply to(a) performers who are nationals of Sri Lanka ;
(b) performers who are not nationals of Sri
Lanka hut whose performances :-

(i) take place on the territory of Sri
Lanka : or

(ii) are incorporated in sound
recordings that are protected under
this Part ; or

(iii) have not been fixed in a sound
recording but are included in
broadcasts qualifying for protection
under this Part.
(2) The provisions of this Part on the protection of
sound recordings. shall apply to –
(a) sound recordings the producers of which,
are nationals of Sri Lanka ;
(b) sound recordings first fixed in Sri Lanka ;
and
(c) sound recordings first published in Sri
Lanka.

(3) The provisions of this Part on the protection of
broadcasts shall apply to(a) broadcasts of broadcasting organisation
where the registered office of such
organisation are situated in Sri Lanka ; and

(b) broadcasts transmitted from transmitters
situated in Sri Lanka.
(4) The provisions of this Part shall in addition apply to
performers, producers of sound recordings and
broadcasting organisation protected by virtue of, and
in accordance with, any international convention of
any international agreement to which Sri Lanka is a
party.
PART III
CHAPTER III

INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS
SCOPE OF THIS PART AND DEFINITIONS
Conditions 28. The protection of industrial designs provided under this Part
for
shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other
protection. protection provided under any other written law, in particular
under Part II of this Act.
Scope of this29. The protection provided under this Part shall
Part.
(a) apply only to new industrial designs ,

(b) not apply to an industrial design which consists of
any scandalous design or is contrary to morality or
public order or public interest or which, in the opinion
of the Director- General of any Court to which such
matter has been referred to is likely to offend the
religious or racial susceptibilities of any community.

Definition of 30. For the purposes of this Part any composition of lines of
industrial colours of any three dimensional form whether of not associated
design.
with lines or colours that gives a special appearance to a product
of industry or handicraft and is capable of serving as a patter for
a product of industry of handicraft shall be deemed to he an
industrial design:

Provided that anything man industrial design which serves solely
to obtain a technical result shall not be protected under this Part.

Definition of 31.
novelty.

(1) For the purpose of this Part a new industrial design
means an industrial design which had not been made
available to the public anywhere in the world and at
any time whatsoever through description, use or in any
other manner before the date of an application for
registration of such industrial design or before the
priority date validly claimed in respect thereof.

(2) An industrial design shall not be deemed to have
been made available to the public solely by reason of
the fact that, within the period of six months
preceding the filing of an application for registration, it
had been a display at an official or officially recognized
international exhibition.
(3) An industrial design shall not be considered a new
industrial design solely by reason of the fact that it
differs from an earlier industrial design in minor
respects or that it concerns a type of product different
from a product embodying an earlier industrial design.

Ownership 32.
and right to
protection of
industrial
design.

CHAPTER IV
RlGHT TO PROTECTION OF INDUSTRIAL
DESIGN
(1) The right to obtain protection of an industrial
design belongs to its owner.
(2) Subject to provisions of section 34, the owner of an
industrial design or his successor in title is its creator

(3) Where two or more persons have jointly created an
industrial design, the right to obtain protection shall
belong to them jointly :

Provided that a person who has merely assisted in the
creation of an industrial design but has made no
contribution of a creative nature shall not be deemed
to be the creator or a co-creator of such industrial
design.
(4) Subject to the provisions of sections 33 and 34 the
person who makes the first application for the
registration of an industrial design or the person who
first validly claims the earliest priority for his
application shall be deemed to he the creator of such
industrial design.
Industrial
design.

33.

(1) Where the essential elements of an industrial,
design, are the subject of an application for
registration or have been derived from an industrial
design, for which the right to protection belongs to
another person, such other person may apply in
writing to the Director-General to assign the said
application or registration to him.

(2) The application for assignment shall be forwarded
with the prescribed fee and evidence to substantiate
the claim of the applicant Where the registration has
already been effected, the application under
subsection (1) shall be made within one year from the
date of the publication of the registration under
section 44 .

(3) The Director-General shall forthwith send a copy of
such application for assignment to the applicant for
registration or the registered owner of the industrial
design, who shall within a period of three months from
the date of such notice forward to the DirectorGeneral a counter statement in the prescribed manner
together with the prescribed fee and evidence to
substantiate his claim .

(4) If the applicant or the registered owner forwards a
counter statement as referred to in subsection (3), the
Director-General shall after hearing the parties, if he
considers it necessary decide as expeditiously as
possible whether the application or registration should
be assigned and, where applicable whether the
register should be rectified. If the applicant or the
registered owner tails to forward a counter statement
as provided for in subsection (3) within the period of
three months, the Director-General shall allow the
application referred to in subsection (1) .

(5) Where, after an application for the registration of
an industrial design has been fifed, the person to
whom the right to protection belongs gives his
consent to the filling of the said application, such
consent shall, for all purposes, be deemed to have
been effective from the date of filling of such
application.
Industrial 34.
design
created by
the
employee to
accrue
employer.

(1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
any contract of employment or for the execution of
work, the ownership of an industrial design created in
the performance of such contract or in the execution
of such work shall be deemed to accrue to the
employer, or the person who commissioned the work,
as the case may be.

Provided that where the industrial design acquires an
economic value much greater than the parties could
reasonably have foreseen at the time of concluding
the contract of employment or for the execution of
work, as the case may be, the creator shall be entitled
to equitable remuneration which may be fixed by the
Court on an application made by the creator to Court
in the absence of an agreement between the parties.

(2) Where an employee whose contract of employment
does not require him to engage in any creative activity
creates, in the field of activities of his employer, an
industrial design using data or means placed at his
disposal by his employer, the ownership of such
industrial design shall be deemed to accrue to the
employer in the absence of any provision to the
contrary in the contract of employment.
Provided that the employee shall be entitled to
equitable remuneration, which in the absence of
agreement between the parties, may be fixed by the
Court on an application made by the employee, taking
into account his emoluments the economic value of
the industrial design and any benefit derived from it by
the employer.
(3) The rights conferred on the creator of an industrial
design by subsections (1) and (2) shall not be
restricted by contract.
Naming of 35.
creator of an
industrial
design.

(1) The creator of an industrial design shall be named
as such in the registration, unless by a declaration in
writing signed by him or any person authorized by him
in writing in that behalf and submitted to the DirectorGeneral indicates his willingness to forgo his name
being used in such registration.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) not be altered,
varied or modified by the terms of any contract.

Requirements36.
of
application.

CHAPTER V
REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICATION AND
PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION OF AN
INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
(1) An application for registration of an industrial
design shall be made to the Director-General in the
prescribed form and shall be accompanied by the
prescribed fee and shall contain
(a) a request for legislation of the industrial
design ,

(b) the name, address and description of the
applicant and, if he is a resident outside Sri
Lanka, a postal address for service in Sri
Lanka ,

(c) a specimen of the article embodying the
industrial design or copies of a photographic
or graphic representation of the industrial
design, in colour where it is in colour, or
drawings and tracings of the design ,

(d) an indication of the kind of products for
which the industrial design is to be used and,
where the regulations make provision for
classification, an indication of the class or
classes in which such products are included ;
(e) a declaration by the applicant that the
industrial design is new to the best of his
knowledge.

(2) The application for registration may be
accompanied by a declaration signed by the creator of
the industrial design, giving his name and address and
requesting the same to be indicated in the registration.
(3) Where the applicant is not the creator of the
industrial design the application shall be accompanied
by a statement justifying the applicant’s right to obtain
registration.
(4) The Director-General shall in every case where the
applicant is not the creator of the Industrial design,
shall serve the creator with a copy of the statement
referred to in subsection (3) The creator of the
industrial design shall have the right to inspect the
application and to receive, on payment of the
prescribed fee, a copy thereof.

(5) Where the application is filed through an agent, it
shall be accompanied by power of attorney granted to
such agent by the applicant.
Right of
priority.

37. The applicant for registration of an industrial design who

desires to await himself of the priority of an earlier application
tiled in a convention country shall, within six months of the date
of such earlier application, append to his application a written
declaration indicating the date and number of the earlier
application, the name of the applicant and the country in which
he or his predecessor in title filed such application and shall,
within a period of three months from the date of the later
application filed in Sri Lanka. furnish a copy of the earlier
application certified as correct by the Appropriate Authority of
the country where such earlier application was filed.

Application 38. An application for registration of an industrial design shall not
fee.
be entertained unless the prescribed fee has been paid to the
Director-General.
Examination 39.
of
application.

(1) The Director-General shall examine whether the
applicant has complied with the provisions of sections
36, section 37 (where applicable) and section 38.
(2) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provision of sections 30 and 37 the Director-General
shall refuse registration of the industrial design :
Provided that the Director-General shall first notify the
applicant of any defect in the application and shall
afford him an opportunity to remedy such defect
within three months from the date of receipt of such
notification.

(3) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provisions of section 37 the Director-General shall not,
in connection with the registration of the industrial
design, make any reference to the priority claimed

(4) Where the applicant complies with the provisions
of section 37 the Director-General shall, in connection
with the registration of the industrial design, record
the priority claimed.
(5) Where the Director General refuses to register an
industrial design he shall, state the grounds for such
refusal and inform the applicant, on payment of a
prescribed fee of the grounds for his decision.
Registration. 40.

(1) Where the applicant complies with the provisions
of sections 36 and 38 the Director-General shall
examine the industrial design in relation to the
provisions of section 29.
(2) Where the industrial design is not registrable under
section 29 the Director General shall notify the
applicant accordingly, stating the grounds for refusal
of registration.
(3) Where the Director- General refuses the application
of a person for registration of an industrial design, the
applicant may within a period of one month from the
date of such notification in terms of section (2), make
his submissions in writing on the matter of such
refusal to the Director-General.

(4) On receipt of any such submission as requited by
subsection (3) the Director General may grant such
applicant a hearing and inform him of the date and
time of such hearing The Director-General may after
such heating register or refuse to register such
industrial design.
(5)

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (1) (2), (3) and (4) where the
Director General finds that the essential
elements of an industrial design is derived
from an industrial design already registered in
respect of which an application for
registration is made, he shall notify the
applicant accordingly and request him, with a
copy to the registered owner of the cited
industrial design, to show that the industrial
design is not so derived .

(b) The applicant may, within a period of three
months from the date of such notice, tender
his written submissions to the DirectorGeneral with the prescribed fee The
registered owner of the cited industrial design
may also tender his observations in writing
within the same period of time .

(c) On receipt or such written submissions
and observations, if any, the Director General
shall after heating the parties if he considers
it necessary forthwith determine whether
such industrial design should be registered or
not .

(d) Where the applicant tails to tender his
written submissions as required by paragraph
(b) of subsection 5 the Director-General shall
refuse the application for the registration of
the industrial design for reasons to be stated
and he shall in writing it the applicant so
requests, inform the applicant in writing or
the grounds lot his decision on payment by
the applicant of the prescribed fee.
(6) Where the Director General is of the opinion that
the industrial design is registrable he may request the
applicant to pay within a period of one month the
prescribed fee for publication or the application.
(7) Where the fee for publication of the application is
not paid within the prescribed period registration of
the industrial design shall be refused.
(8)

(a) If the fee for publication is paid within the
prescribed period the Director-General shall
proceed to publish the application setting out
the date of application, number of the
application, the name and address of the
applicant and if the applicant is resident
outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service
in Sri Lanka, the priority claimed, a
description of the industrial design and the
kind and class of the industrial design.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (6), (7) and paragraph (a) of
subsection (8), the Director-General may in
his discretion by a written notice, require the
applicant to publish the application in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(a) of subsection (8) and in the form as
indicated by the Director-General. Where the
applicant fails or neglects to publish the
application as required by the DirectorGeneral within a period of two months from
the said notice of the Director-General, the
application may be refused.

(9) Where any person considers that the industrial
design is not registrable on one or more grounds
referred to in section 29 he may within a period of two
months from the date of publication give to the
Director-General in a prescribed form and together
with the prescribed fee, notice of opposition to such
registration stating his grounds of opposition
accompanied by evidence to substantiate such
grounds.
(10) Where notice of opposition has not been received
by the Director-General within the period specified in
subsection (9) the Director-General shall register the
industrial design.

(11) Where, within the period specified in subsection
(9) notice of opposition in the prescribed form is
received by the Director-General, together with the
prescribed fee, he shall serve a copy of such grounds
of opposition on the applicant and shall request him to
present his observations on those grounds in writing
accompanied by evidence to support his application
within a period of one month.

(12) On receipt of the observations of the applicant
the Director-General shall after hearing the parties,
where taking all the circumstances into consideration
he considers such hearing necessary, decide, as
expeditiously as possible, whether or not the industrial

design may be registered If he decides that the
industrial design is registrable he shall accordingly
register such industrial design(a) where no appeal is preferred against his
decision, upon the expiry of the period within
which an appeal may be preferred against his
decision .
(b) where an appeal is preferred against his
decision, upon the dismissal of such appeal,
as the case may be.

(13) The Director-General may allow a reasonable
extension of the prescribed period within which any
act has to be done or any fee has to be paid under this
section
Issue of
41.Upon the registration of an industrial design, the Directorcertificate of General shall issue to the registered owner thereof a Certificate
registration. of Registration and shall, at the request of the registered owner,
send such certificate to him by registered post to his last
recorded postal address in Sri Lanka or, if he is resident outside
Sri Lanka, to his last recorded postal address.
Register of 42.
Industrial
Designs.

(1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain a
register called the “Register of Industrial Designs”
wherein shall be recorded, in the order of then
registration, all registered industrial designs and such
other particulars relating to the industrial designs as
are authorised or directed by this Part to be so
recorded or may from time to time be prescribed
(2) The registration of an industrial design shall include
a representation of the industrial design and shall
specify its number, the name and address of the
registered owner and, if the registered owner is
resident outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service
in Sri Lanka ; the date of application and registration ;
if priority is validly claimed, an indication of that fact
and the number, date and country of the application
on the basis of which the priority is claimed ; the kinds
and classes of products referred to in paragraph (d)
subsection (1) of section 36 and the name and address
of the creator of the industrial design, if he has
requested his name to be indicated as such in the
registration.

Examination 43. Any person may examine the register and may obtain
of register certified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee.
and certified
copies.
Publication 44. The Director-General shall cause to be published in the
of registered Gazette, in the prescribed form, all registered industrial designs
industrial in the order of their registration, including in respect of each
designs.
industrial design so published reference to such particulars as
may be prescribed.
CHAPTER VI
DURATION OF REGISTRATION OF AN
INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
Duration of 45. Subject to, and without prejudice to the other provisions of
registration. this Part, registration of an industrial design shall expire on the
completion of five years from the date of receipt of the
application for registration.
Renewal.

46.

(1) Registration of an industrial design may be
renewed for two consecutive periods of five years
each, on an application made in that behalf and on
payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) The renewal fee shall be paid within the six months
preceding the date of expiration of the period of
registration :
Provided, however, that a period of grace of six
months shall be allowed for the payment of the fee
after the date of such expiration, upon payment of
such surcharge as may be prescribed.
(3) The Director-General shall record in the register
and cause to be published in the Gazette in the
prescribed form a list of all renewals of registration of
industrial designs.

(4) Where the renewal fee has not been paid within
such period or such extended period as is specified in
subsection (2), the Director-General shall remove from
the relevant register the registration relating to such
industrial design.
CHAPTER VII
RIGHTS OR A REGISTERED OWNER OF AN
INDUSTRIAL DESIGN

Rights of a 47.
registered
owner or an
industrial
design.

(1) Subject and without prejudice to other provisions
of this Part, the registered owner of an industrial
design shall in relation to such industrial design have
the exclusive rights to(a) reproduce and embody such industrial
design in making a product ,

(b) import, offer for sale, sell or use a product
embodying such industrial design ;
(c) stock for the purpose of offering for sale,
selling or using, a product embodying such
industrial design ;
(d) assign or transmit the registration of the
industrial design ;
(e)conclude licence contracts.

(2) No person shall do any of the acts referred to in
subsection (1) without the consent of the registered
owner of the industrial design.

(3) The acts referred to in subsection (1), if done by
any unauthorized person, shall not be lawful solely by
reason of the fact that the reproduction of the
registered industrial design differs from the registered
industrial design in minor respects or that the
reproduction of the registered industrial design is
embodied in a type of product different from a
product embodying the registered industrial design.
Limitation of 48. The provisions of subsection (1) of section 47 shallregistered
(1) extend only to acts done for industrial or
owner’s
commercial purposes ;
rights.
(2) not preclude third parties from performing any of
the acts referred to therein in respect of a product
embodying the registered industrial design after the
said product has been lawfully manufactured,
imported, offered for sale, sold, used or stocked in Sri
Lanka.

Assignment 49.
and
transmission
of
application
and
registrations.

CHAPTER VIII
ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSMISSION OF
APPLICATIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF
INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS AND REGISTRATIONS
OF THE SAME
(1) An application for registration or the registration of
an industrial design may be assigned or transmitted
and such assignment or transmission shall be in
writing signed by or on behalf of the contracting
parties.

(2) Any person becoming entitled by assignment or by
transmission to an application for registration or the
registration of an industrial design may apply to the
Director-General in the prescribed manner along
within the prescribed fee to have such assignment or
transmission recorded in the register.
(3) No such assignment or transmission shall be
recorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has
been paid to the Director-General.
(4) No such assignment or transmission shall have
effect against third parties unless so recorded in the
register.

Joint
50. In the absence of any agreement to the contrary between the
ownership of parties, joint owners of an application for registration or the
applications registration of an industrial design may, separately, assign or
and
transmit their rights in the application or registration, use the
registration. industrial design and exercise the exclusive rights referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (c) of subsection (1) of section 47, but may only
jointly withdraw the application, renounce the registration or
conclude a licence contract.
CHAPTER IX
LICENCE CONTRACTS OF INDUSTRIAL
DESIGNS
Interpretation.51. For the purposes of this Part licence contract means any
contract by which the registered owner of an industrial design
(“the Licensor”) grants to another person or enterprise (“the
licensee”) a licence to do any or ail of the acts referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section 47.
Form and
record of
licence
contract.

52.

(1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed by or
on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the contracting parties, the Director-General shall on
payment of the prescribed fee, record in the register
such particulars relating to the contract as the parties
thereto requires to be recorded :
Provided that the parties shall not be required to
disclose or have recorded any other particulars
relating to the said contract.

Rights of
licensee.

53. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in the licence

contract, the licensee shall –

(a) be entitled to do any or all of the acts referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section
47 within Sri Lanka, during the period of validity of the
registration of the industrial design, inclusive of the
period of renewal if any ;
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights
under the licence contract or grant sub-licenses to
third parties.

Rights of
licensor.

54.

(1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
the licence contacts, the licensor may grant further
licenses to third parties in respect of the same
industrial design or on behalf of himself do any or all
of the acts referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
of subsection (1) of section 47.

(2) Where the license contract provides that the
license is exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided
otherwise in such contract, the licensor shall not grant
further licenses to third parties in respect of the same
industrial design or not execute any of the acts
referred to in sub paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
subsection (1) of section 47 or cause to be executed.

Invalid
clauses in
license
contracts.

55. Any clause or condition in a license contract shall be null and

void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee, in industrial or
commercial field, restrictions not derived from the rights
conferred by this Part on the registered owner of an industrial
design, or unnecessary for safeguarding of such rights :
Provided that –

(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent, or
duration of use of the industrial design, or the
geographical area in or the quality or quantity of the
products in connection with which the industrial
design may be used ; and
(b) obligations imposed upon the licensee to refrain
from all acts capable of prejudicing the validity of the
registration of the industrial design,

Effect of
nullity of
registration
of license
contract.

shall not be deemed to constitute such restrictions.

56. Where, before the expiration of the license contract the

registration is declared null and void the licensee in such event
not be required to make any payment to the licensor under the
licence contract, and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the
payments already made :
Provided that the licensor shall not be required to make any
repayment, or be required to make repayment in part, to the
extent of his ability to prove that such repayment would be
inequitable having considered all the circumstances and in
particular whether the licensee has effectively profited from the
licence.

Expiry
57. The Director-General shalI –
termination
(1) if he is satisfied that a recorded licence contract
or
has expired or been terminated, record that fact in the
invalidation
register upon a request in writing to that effect signed
of licence
by or on behalf of the parties thereto ;
contract.
(2) record in the register the expiry, termination or
invalidation of a licence contract under any provision
of this Part.
Licence
contracts
involving
payments
abroad.

58.

(1) Where the Director-General has reasonable cause
to believe that any licence contract or any amendment
or renewal thereof(a) which involves the payment of royalties
abroad; or
(b) which by reason of other circumstances
relating to such licence contract,

is detrimental to the economic development of Sri
Lanka he shall in writing communicate such fact to the
Governor of the Central Bank and transmit all papers
in his custody relevant to the matter which are
essential to the making of a decision on such matter to
the Governor of the Central Bank.
(2) Where the Governor of the Central Bank on receipt
of any communication under subsection (1) informs
the Director-General in writing that the said licence
contract or any amendment or renewal thereof is
detrimental to the economic development of Sri
Lanka, the Director-General shall cancel and invalidate
the record of such contract in the register.
(3) The provisions of this section shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to assignment and transmissions.
(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply mutatis
mutandis, to sub-licences.

Renunciation59.
of
registration.

CHAPTER X
RENUNCIATION AND NULLITY OR
REGISTRATION OF INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
(1) The registered owner of an industrial design may
renounce the registration by a declaration in writing
signed by him or on his behalf in writing and submit it
to the Director-General.
(2) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the said
declaration, record it in the register and cause such
record to be published in the Gazette.

(3) The renunciation shall take effect from the date
that the Director-General receives the said declaration.
(4) Where a licence contract in respect of an industrial
design is recorded in the register the Director-General
shall not, in the absence of any provision to the
contrary in such licence contract, accept or record the
said renunciation except upon receipt of a signed
declaration by which every licensee or sub-licensee on
record consents to the said renunciation, unless the
requirement of their consent is expressly waived in the
licence contract.
Nullity of 60.
registration.

(1) The Court may on the application, to which the
registered owner of the industrial design and every
assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on record shall be
made a party, of any person having a legitimate
interest, or of any competent authority including the
Director-General, declare the registration of the
industrial design null and void on any one or more of
the following grounds(a) that the provisions of sections 29, 30 and
31 have not been complied with :

Provided, however, that the grounds of nullity
referred to in subsection (2) of section 29
shall not be taken into account if such
grounds are not apparent on the date of the
making of the application to Court;
(b) that the identical industrial design has
been previously registered upon a prior
application or has been conferred earlier
priority by virtue of an application in that
behalf upon the ground of prior registration
in another country ;
(c) that the essential elements of the
registered industrial design have been
unlawfully derived from the creation of
another person within the meaning of section
33.
(2) Where an application under subsection (1) of this
section relates to several industrial designs, included in
the registration and any ground for nullity applies to
some, the Court shall declare such registration null
and void in so far as it relates to the industrial design
in respect of which the ground for nullity applies.
Date and
effect of
nullity.

61.

(1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring total or
partial nullity of the registration of an industrial design,
the registration shall be deemed to have been null and
void totally or partially, as the case may be, from the
date of such registration.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General
who shall record such declaration in the register and
cause it be published in the Gazette.
PART IV

Definition of 62.
invention.

CHAPTER XI
DEFINITIONS
(1) For the purposes of this Part, “invention” means an
idea of an inventor which permits in practice the
solution to a specific problem in the field of
technology.
(2) An invention may be, or may relate to, a product or
process.
(3) The following, notwithstanding they are inventions
within the meaning of subsection (1), shall not be
patentable –
(a) discoveries, scientific
mathematical methods ;

theories

and

(b) plants, animals and other micro organism
other than transgenic micro organism and an
essentially biological process for the
production of plants and animals other than
non-biological and microbiological processes:

Provided however, that a patent granted in
respect of micro organisms shall be subject to
the provisions of this Act;
(c) schemes, rules, or methods for doing
business, performing purely mental acts or
playing games ;

(d) methods for the treatment of the human
or animal body by surgery or therapy, and
diagnostic methods practiced on the human
or animal body :

Provided however, any product used in any
such method shall be patentable ;
(e) an invention which is useful in the
utilization of special nuclear material or
atomic energy in an atomic weapon ;

(f) any invention, the prevention within Sri
Lanka of the commercial exploitation of
which is necessary to protect the public order,
morality including the protection of human,
animal or plant life or health or the avoidance
of serious prejudice to the environment.
Patentable 63. An invention is patentable if it is new, involves an inventive
inventions. step and is industrially applicable.
Novelty.

64.

(1) An invention is new if it is not anticipated by prior
art.
(2) Prior art shall consist of –

(a) everything disclosed to the public,
anywhere in the world, by written publication,
oral disclosure, use or in any other way, prior
to the filing or, where appropriate, priority
date of the patent application claiming the
invention ;

(b) the contents of patent application made in
Sri Lanka having an earlier filing or, where
appropriate, priority date than the patent
application referred to in paragraph (a), to
extent that such contents are included in the
patent granted on the basis of the said patent
application made in Sri Lanka.
(3) A disclosure made under paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) shall be disregarded –

(a) if such disclosure occurred within one year
preceding the date of the patent application
and if such disclosure or in consequence of
acts committed by the applicant or his
predecessor in title ;
(b) if such disclosure occurred within six
months preceding the date of the patent
application and if such disclosure was by
reason or in consequence of any abuse of the
rights of the applicant or his predecessor in
title.

Inventive
step.

65. An invention shall be considered as involving an inventive

step if, having regard to the prior art relevant to the patent
application claiming the invention, such inventive step would not
have been obvious to a person having ordinary skill in the art.

Industrial 66. An invention shall be considered industrially applicable it can
application be made or used in any kind of industry.
of invention.
Right to a
patent.

67.

CHAPTER XII
RIGHT TO A PATENT

(1) Subject to the provisions of section 68 the right a
patent shall belong to the inventor.

(2) Where two or more persons have jointly made an
invention, the right to a patent shall belong to them
jointly.

(3) If and to the extent to which two or more persons
have made the same invention independently of each
other, the person whose application has the earliest
filling date or, if priority is claimed the earliest validly
claimed priority date, shall have the right to the
patent, so long as that application is not withdrawn,
abandoned or rejected.
Assignment 68. Where the essential element of the invention claimed in a
of Patent patent application or patent have been unlawfully derived from
application an invention for which the light to the patent belongs to another
or patent by person, such other person may apply to the Court for an order
court in case that the said patent application or patent be assigned to him.
of
usurpation.
Provided that where, after a patent application has been filed,
the person to whom the right to the patent belongs gives his
consent to the filing of the said patent application, such consent
shall, for all purposes, be deemed to have been effective horn
the date of filing of such application.

Provided also that the Court shall not entertain an application for
the assignment of a patent after the expiry of a period of five
years from the date of grant of the patent.

Inventions 69.
made by an
employee or
pursuant to
a
commission.

(1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
any contract of employment or for the execution of
work, the right to a patent for an invention made in the
performance of such contract of employment or in the
execution of such work shall be deemed to accrue to
the employer, or the person who commissioned the
work, as the case may be :

Provided that where the invention acquires an
economic value much greater than the parties could
reasonably have foreseen at the time of entering the
contract of employment or for the execution of work,
as the case may be, the inventor shall be entitled to
equitable remuneration which may be fixed by the
Court an application made to it in that behalf, in the
absence of an agreement between the parties.

(2) Where an employee whose contract of employment
does not require him to engage in any inventive
activity, makes in the field of activities of his employer,
an invention using data or means placed at his
disposal by his employer, the right to the patent for
such invention shall be deemed to accrue to the
employer, in the absence of any provision to the
contrary in the contract of employment :
Provided that the employee shall be entitled to
equitable remuneration which, in the absence of
agreement between the parties, may be fixed by the
Court, taking into account his emoluments an
application made to it in that behalf the economic
value of the invention and any benefit derived from it
by the employer.
(3) The rights conferred on the inventor under
subsections (1) and (2) shall not be restricted by
contract.
Naming of 70.
inventor.

(1) The inventor shall be named as such in the patent,
unless by a declaration in writing signed by him or on
his behalf and submitted to the Director-General, he
indicates his decision to forgo his name being included
in the patent.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not be
modified by the terms of any contract.

Requirements71.
of
applications.

CHAPTER XIII
REQUIREMENTS OR APPLICATION AND
PROCEDURE FOR GRANT OF A PATENT
(1)

(a) An application for the grant of a patent
shall be made to the Director-General in the
prescribed form and shall contain –
(i) a request for the grant of the patent
;
(ii) a description of the patent;
(iii) a claim or claims ;

(iv) a drawing or drawings, where
required ;
(v) an abstract ;

(vi) date and number of any
application for a patent filed by the
applicant abroad (hereinafter referred
to as the “foreign application”), if any,
relating to the same, or essentially the
same invention as that claimed in the
present application ;
(vii) a declaration that the applicant or
his predecessor in title has not
obtained a patent abroad before the
application was filed relating to the

same or essentially the same invention
as that claimed in the application.
(b) If the declaration referred to in subparagraph (vii) of paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) of this section is found to be false, the
Court may declare the patent to be null and
void on an application made to it by any
interested party or a Competent Authority
including the Director-General. The registered
owner of the patent, assignees and licensees
shall be made party to that application.
(c) Where the applicant’s ordinary residence
or principal place of business is outside Sri
Lanka, he shall be represented by an agent
resident in Sri Lanka whose name and address
shall be given in the application, and the
application shall be accompanied by a power
of attorney granted to such agent by the
applicant.

(d) The application may be accompanied by a
declaration signed by the inventor, giving his
name and address and requesting that he be
named as such in the patent.
(2)

(a) The request shall contain –

(i) a petition that the patent be
granted ;
(ii) the title of the invention;

(iii) the name, address, description and
any other prescribed information
concerning the applicant, the inventor
and the agent, if any.
(b) Where the applicant is not the inventor,
the request shall be accompanied by a
statement justifying the applicant’s right to
the patent.
(c) The Director-General shall send a copy of
the statement referred to in paragraph (b) to
the inventor who shall have the right to
inspect the application and to receive, on
payment of the prescribed fee, a copy
thereof.

(3) The description shall disclose the invention in a
manner sufficiently clear and complete for the
invention to be evaluated, and to be carried out by a
person having ordinary skill in the relevant technology
and shall, in particular, indicate the best mode known
to the applicant for carrying out the invention.
(4) The claim or claims shall be clear, concise and
supported by the description.
(5) Drawings shall be required when they are necessary
for the understanding of the invention.
(6) The terms of any claim shall determine the scope
and extent of the protection afforded by the patent,
and the description and drawings may be used to
interpret such claim.

(7) The abstract shall serve the purpose of technical
information and shall not be used for the purpose of
determining or interpreting the scope and extent of
the protection afforded by the patent.
(8) Any application filed outside Sri Lanka under the
Patent Corporation Treaty for a patent designating Sri
Lanka shall if the applicant files a corresponding
application with the Director-General be deemed to be
an application made under this Act.

For the purposes of this Chapter “the Patent
Corporation Treaty” means the Patent Corporation
Treaty made in Washington on June 19th 1970, as
amended from time to time.
Application 72. An application for the grant of a patent shall not be
fee.
entertained unless prescribed fee has been paid to the DirectorGeneral.
Search
report.

73.

(1) Every applicant shall furnish, within the prescribed
period, a report, which if not in English shall be
accompanied by a translation thereof in English, of a
search which shall conform such type as may be
prescribed :

Provided, however, that in lieu of the said search an
applicant may request the Director-General to refer
the application to a local examiner who shall examine
the application on the basis of any claim with due
regard to the description and the drawings, if any, and
furnish a report to the Director-General within the
prescribed period, on the relevant prior at after
making the required effort to discover as much of the
relevant prior art as facilities permit; and for the
purposes of the search the local examiner shall make
reference to every documentation on prior art
available to him.
(2) The applicant shall, when requiring the Director
General to refer his application to a local examiner,
forward such application with the prescribed fee to
Director-General
(3)

(a) The applicant shall, at the request of the
Director- General, furnish him with the
following documents in respect of any foreign
application for a patent filed by him abroad
relating to the same of essentially the same
invention as that claimed in the application
filed under this Act –
(i) a copy of any communication
received by the applicant concerning
the results of any search or
examination carried out in respect of
the foreign application ;
(ii) a copy of the patent granted on the
basis of the foreign application ; and

(iii) a copy of any final decision
rejecting the foreign application or
refusing the grant of a patent
requested in the foreign application.
(b) The applicant shall, at the request of the
Director-General, furnish him with a copy of
any final decision invalidating the patent
granted on the basis of the foreign
application referred to in paragraph (a).
(4) For this purposes of the section “local examiner”
means any skilled person to whom the DirectorGeneral may refer questions concerning patents.
Unity of
invention.

74. An application shall relate to one invention only or to a group

of inventions which are so finked to each other so as to form a
single general inventive concept.

Amendment 75.
and division
of
application.

(1) An applicant may amend the application, provided
that the amendment shall not exceed the limits of the
disclosure in the initial application.
(2)

(a) An applicant may divide the application
into two or more applications (hereinafter
referred to as “divisional applications”)
provided that each divisional application shall
not exceed the limits of disclosure in the
initial application.
(b) Each divisional application shall be entitled
to the filing, or where applicable, priority,
from date of the initial application.

(3) An amendment to an application or a division of an
application shall be subject to the payment of a
prescribed fee.
Right of
priority

76.

(1) An application may contain a declaration claiming
the priority, pursuant to the Convention, of one or
more earlier national, regional or international
applications filed by the applicant or his predecessor
in title in or for any State party to the said Convention.

(2) where the application contains a declaration under
subsection (1),the Director-General may require the
applicant to furnish within the prescribed period a
copy of the earlier application certified as correct by
an officer authorized in that behalf for that purpose by
the Office with which it was filed or where the earlier
application is an international application filed under
the Patent Co-operation Treaty, by an officer
authorized in that behalf for that purpose by the
International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property
Organization.
(3) The effect of the declaration referred to in
subsection (1) shall be the same as provided for in the
Convention referred to therein.

(4) Where any of the requirements of this section or
any regulation made there under have not been
complied with, the declaration referred to in
subsection (1) shall be deemed to be null and void.
Filing date. 77.

(1) The Director General shall record as the filing date,
the date of receipt of the application
Provided that on the date of the receipt of the
application , contains –
(a) the name and address of the applicant;

(b) the name and address of the inventor and,
where the applicant is not his inventor, the
statement referred to in paragraph (b) of
subsection (2) of section 71 ;
(c) a description of the patent;
(d) a claim of claims :

Provided further that at the time of receipt of the
application the prescribed fee has been paid.

(2) Where the Director-General finds, at the time of
receipt of the application, that the provisions of
subsection (1) have not been complied with, he shall
request the applicant to file the required correction
within a period of three months from the date of such
request.
(3) Where the applicant complies with the request
referred to in subsection (2), the Director-General shall
record as the filing date, the date of receipt of the
required correction ; where the applicant fails to so
comply the Director-General shall treat the application
as null and void.

(4) Where the application refers to drawings which in
fact are not included in the application, the DirectorGeneral shall request the applicant to furnish the
missing drawings.

(5) Where the applicant complies with the request
referred to in subsection (4), the Director-General shall
record as the filing date the date of receipt of the
missing drawings ; where the applicant fails to so
comply the Director-General shall record as the filing
date, the date of receipt of the application and shall
make no reference to the said drawings.
(6) The title, description, drawings, abstracts and
claims filed with any international application made
under subsection (8) of section 71, designating Sri
Lanka shall be deemed to be carried out in accordance
with specifications required under this Act.

(7) The filing date of such application made under
subsection (8) of section 71 and processed by the
office shall be deemed to be the date of filling of such
application under the Patent Corporation Treaty
Examination 78.
of
applications
&c.

(1) The Director General shall examine the application
and shall satisfy himself as to the fulfilment of the
following :-

(a) where applicable, the requirements of
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 71 ,

(b) the requirements of paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) of section 71 ,
(c) where applicable, the requirements of
paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 71 ,
(d) the description, the claims and where
applicable, the drawings, which comply with
the prescribed requirements ,

(e) the essential elements of the invention
claimed in the application have not been
unlawfully derived from a patent already
granted in Sri Lanka ;
(f) the application contains an abstract ;

(g) the search report referred to in section 73
has been submitted
(2) Where the Director-General finds that the
conditions referred to in subsection (1) are not fulfilled
he shall request the applicant to tile the required
correction within a period of three months from the
date of such request ; where the applicant fails to so
comply the application shall, subject to the provisions
of subsection (3), be rejected.

(3) Where no correction is provided in response to a
request under subsection (2), the Director-General
shall, on payment of the prescribed fee within the
prescribed period, include the collections into the
application and if the prescribed tee is not paid within
the prescribed period the application shall be
application shall be rejected.

(4) Where the Director-General finds that the essential
elements of an invention claimed in an application are
unlawfully derived from a patent already granted in Sri
Lanka, such application shall be rejected.

(5) The Director-General shall notify the applicant of
any decision under subsections (2), (3) and (4) and any
decision taken to reject the application shall be in
writing stating the reasons for such rejection.
Grant of
patent.

79.

(1) The grant of a patent shall not be refused and a
patent shall not be invalidated on the ground that the
commercial exploitation of the claimed invention is
prohibited by any law except where the prevention of
the commercial exploitation of the claimed invention Is
necessary in order to protect public order, and
morality including the protection of human, animal or
plant life or health or for the avoidance of serious
prejudice to the environment.

(2) Where the applicant fulfils the requirements of
subsection (1) of section 78 to the satisfaction of the
Director-General, he shall grant the patent, and shall
forthwith –

(a) record the particulars relating to patent in
the Register of patents required to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions
of section 80 ;
(b) issue a certificate to the applicant in
respect of the grant of a patent together with
a copy of the patent documents including the
search report :

Provided however where the applicant has not
tendered an international search report, but has
requested the Director-General to refer the application
to a local examiner under the proviso to section 73,
the Director-General shall publish a notice informing
the public, of the possibility of granting a patent to the
applicant at the expiration of a period of three months
from the date of publication of the notice, unless
otherwise directed by the Court.
(3) The Director-General shall thereafter as soon as
practicable cause to be published in the Gazette a
notice pertaining to the grant of the patent.
(4) The patent shall be deemed to be granted on the
date that the Director-General acts in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (2).

(5) The notice referred to in the proviso to subsection
(2) shall contain the name and address of the applicant
and where the applicant is resident outside Sri Lanka a
postal address for service in Sri Lanka, a description of
the invention and any other information as may be
prescribed.

(6) The applicant shall make the payment of the
prescribed fee for the publication referred to in the
proviso to subsection (2) upon the request of the
Director-General, and where the applicant fails to
satisfy such request within one month from the date of
such request the Director-General shall refuse to grant
such patent.
Register of 80. The Director-General shall keep and maintain a register
Patents.
(hereinafter called and referred to as the “Register of Patents”)
wherein all patents shall be recorded, in the order of their grant,
specifying the number of the patent, the name and address of
the grantee and, if the grantee is resident outside Sri Lanka, a
postal address for service in Sri Lanka, the date of application
and grant, any change in the ownership of a patent application or
patent, the amendment or division of a patent application, the
assignment or transmission of a patent application or patent, any
valid claim to priority, the surrender or revocation of a patent and
such other matters relating to patents as are authorised or
directed by this Part to be so recorded or may from time to time
be prescribed.
Examination 81. Any person may examine the register and may obtain
of register certified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee.
and certified
copies.
Inspection of82.
files.
(1) Any person may, after the grant of a patent,
inspect, subject to subsections (2) and (3), the file
relating to any patent and may obtain certified
extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee.
(2) The file relating to a patent application may be
inspected before the grant of the patent only with the
written permission of the applicant.

Provided that before the grant of the patent the
Director-General may divulge the following
information to any person(a) the name, address and description of the
applicant and the name and address of the
agent, if any ,
(b) the number of the application ,

(c) the filing date of the application and, if
priority is claimed, the priority date, the
number of the earlier application and the
name of the State in which the earlier
application was filed or, when the earlier
application is a regional or an international
application, the name of the State or States
for which and the office with which, it was
filed ,
(d) the title of the invention ,

(e) any change in the ownership of the
application and any reference to a licence
contract appearing in the file relating to the
application.
(3) Where the provisions of the proviso to subsection
(2) of section 79 are applicable, the reference to the
grant or a patent in subsections (1) and (2) or this
section shall be deemed to be a reference to the
publication of the notice referred to in the said
proviso.

(4) No person employed in or at the office may make a
patent application or be granted a patent or acquire or
hold in any manner whatsoever any right relating to a
patent during the period or his employment in or at
the office and for one year after the termination of
such employment.

Duration of 83.
patent.

CHAPTER XIV
DURATION OF PATENT
(1) Subject and without prejudice to the other
provisions of this Part a patent shall expire twenty
years after the filing date of application for its
registration.
(2) Where a patentee intends at the expiration of the
second year from the date of grant of the patent to
keep the same in force he shall, twelve months prior to
the date of expiration of the second and each
succeeding year during the term of the patent, pay the
prescribed annual fee:
Provided, however, that a period of grace of six
months shall be allowed after the date of such
expiration, upon payment of such surcharge as may be
prescribed :
Provided further that the patentee may pay in advance
the whole or any portion of the aggregate of the
prescribed annual fees.

Rights of
owner of
patent.

84.

CHAPTER XV
RIGHTS OF OWNER OF PATENT
(1) Subject and without prejudice to the other
provisions of this Part, the owner of a patent shall have
the following exclusive rights in relation to a patented
invention:(a) to exploit the patented invention ;
(b) to assign or transmit the patent ;
(c) to conclude licence contracts.

(2) No person shall do any of the acts referred to in
subsection (1) without the consent of the owner of the
patent.
(3) For the purposes or the this Part exploitation” of a
patented invention means any of the following acts in
relation to a patent :(a) when the patent has been granted in
respect of a product –

(i) making, importing, offering for sale,
selling, exporting or using the product
;
(ii) stocking such product for the
purpose of offering for sale, selling,
exporting or using ;

(b) when the patent has been granted in
respect of a process –
(i) using of the process ;

(ii) doing any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (a), in respect of a product
obtained directly by means of the
process ;
(iii) preventing any person using that
process or using, selling or importing
any product obtained directly by
means of that process unless such
person is authorized to do so.
Burden of 85.
proof to be
on the
alleged
infringer.

(1) Where the subject mater of a patent is a process
for obtaining a product, the burden of proof in a civil
action of establishing that an alleged infringing
product was not obtained by that patented process
shall be on the alleged infringer –
(a) if the product obtained by the patented
process is new ; or

(b) if a substantial likelihood exists that the
product was made by the patented process
and the patent owner has been unable
through reasonable efforts to determine the
process actually used.
(2) In the gathering and evaluation of evidence, the
legitimate interests of the alleged infringer in
protecting his undisclosed information shall be taken
into account
Limitation of 86.
owner’s
rights.

(1) The provisions of section 84 shall

(i) extend only to acts done for industrial or
commercial purposes and in particular shall
not extend to acts done only for the purpose
of scientific research ;
(ii) not preclude a person having the rights
referred to in section 87 or a licensee, from
exploiting the patented invention ;

(iii) not extend to the presence or use of
products on foreign vessels, aircraft,
spacecraft, or land vehicles which temporarily
or accidentally enter the waters, airspace or
territory of Sri Lanka ;
(iv) not extend to acts in respect of articles
which have been put in the market by the
owner of the patent or by a manufacturer
under licence.
(2)

(a) Any person, body of persons, a
government department or a statutory body
may make an application to the Director
General for the purpose of obtaining a licence
to exploit a patent in the manner hereafter
provided.
(b) Upon the receipt of such application, the
Director General may issue a licence for
exploitation if he is satisfied that the
applicant has made efforts to obtain approval
from the right holder on reasonable
commercial terms and conditions and that
such efforts have not been successful within a
reasonable period of time.
(c) Director-General may waive the
requirements set out in paragraph (b) where
he has satisfied himself of the existence of a
national
emergency
or
any
other
circumstances of extreme urgency or in case
of public non-commercial use for the
purposes such as national security, nutrition,
health or for the development of others vital
section of the national economy,

(d) The exploitation of the patent shall be
limited in scope and duration to the purpose
as is specified in the licence. Such
exploitation shall be predominantly for the
purpose of supply to the domestic market,
(e) The Director-General shall consider each
application on its individual merits before
granting a licence to exploit a patent.

(f) The issuance of a licence shall be nonexclusive and subject to the payment of
adequate remuneration to the owner of the
patent taking into consideration the economic
value as determined by the Director General,
and where applicable, the need to correct
anti- competitive practices.
(g) Where such application is for the
exploitation of the patent (the second patent)
which cannot be exploited without infringing
another patent (the first patent), the following

conditions shall apply:

(i) the invention claimed in the second
patent shall involve and important
technical advance of considerable
economic significance in relation to
the invention claimed in the first
patent;
(ii) the owner of the first patent shall
be entitled to a cross licence on
reasonable terms to exploit the
invention claimed in the second
patent, and

(iii) the exploitation authorized in
respect of the first patent shall be non
assignable except with the assignment
of the second patent.
(h) The decision of the Director-General, shall
be notified in writing to the owner of the
patent as soon as practicable.

(i) The Director-General, shall upon, the
request of the owner or of the beneficiary of
the licence, after hearing the parties, vary his
decision by amending the terms subject to
which licence for the exploitation or the
patent is issued to the extent only that the
changed circumstances justify such variation.
(j) The Director General shall upon the request
of the owner, terminate the non voluntary
license if he is satisfied that the
circumstances which led to his decision have
ceased to exist and are unlikely to recur or
that the license has failed to comply with
terms of such licence
(k) Notwithstanding anything contained in
paragraph, (j) the Director-General shall not
terminate a licence, it he is satisfied that
adequate protection of the legitimate interest
of the beneficiary of the licence justifies the
continuity of such licence.

(l) The licence to exploit a patent may be
transferred only with the enterprise or the
business of the licence of such patent or with
the part of such enterprise of business, in
relation to which the licence to exploit has
been granted.

(m) Where a judicial or administrative body
has determined that the manner or
exploitation of a patent by its owner or its
licensee is anti competitive, and the DirectorGeneral is satisfied that the exploitation of a
patent in accordance with this section would
remedy such practice, the Director-General
may authorize any person, body of persons,
government departments or statutory body to
exploit the patent without a licence of the
owner of the patent The provisions of the
above paragraphs except those of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (g) shall be applicable to such
licence.
(3) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
Director-General under subsection (2), may tender an
appeal therefrom. The provisions of section 173 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in respect of such appeal.
Rights
87.
derived from
prior
manufacture
or use.

(1) Where a person at the filing date or, where
applicable, the priority date, of the patent application
–
(a) was in good faith making the product or
using the process in Sri Lanka which is the
subject of the invention claimed in such
application ;
(b) had in good faith made serious
preparations in Sri Lanka towards the making
of the product or using the process referred
to in paragraph (a),
he shall have the right, despite the grant of the patent,
to exploit the patented invention
Provided that the product in question is made, or the
process in question is used by the said person in Sri
Lanka

Provided further, if the invention was disclosed under
circumstances referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of
subsection (3) of section 64, he may prove, that his
knowledge of the invention was not as a result of such
disclosure.
(2) The right referred to in subsection (1) shall not be
assigned or transmitted except as part of the business
of the person concerned.

(3) The provisions of this section shall not affect the
rights of any person to object to the grant of a patent
on the ground that such invention is not patentable
under sections 63, 64,65 and 66 of the Act, or to seek
relief under sections 68 and 99 of the Act.

Assignment 88.
and
transmission
of patent
applications
and patents.

CHAPTER XVI
ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSMISSION OF
PATENT APPLICATIONS AND PATENTS
(1) A patent application or patent may be assigned or
transmitted and such assignment or transmission shall
be writing signed by or on behalf of the contracting
parties.

(2) Any person becoming entitled by assignment or
transmission to a patent application or patent may
apply to the Director-General in the prescribed manner
to have such assignment or transmission recorded in
the register.
(3) No such assignment or transmission shall be
recorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has
been paid to the Director-General.
(4) No such assignment or transmission shall have
effect against third parties unless so recorded in the
register.

Joint
89. In the absence of any agreement to the contrary between the
ownership of parties, joint owners of a patent application or patent may,
Patent
separately, assign or transmit their rights in the patent
applications application or patent, exploit the patented invention and take
or patents. action against any person exploiting the patented invention
without their consent, but may only jointly withdraw the patent
application, surrender the patent or conclude a licence contract.
CHAPTER XVII
LICENCE CONTRACTS
Interpretation.90. For the purposes of this Part licence contract means any
contract by which the owner of a patent (hereinafter referred to
as “the licensor”) grants to another person or enterprise
(hereinafter referred to as the “the licensee”) a licence to do all or
any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and
subsection (3) of section 84.
Form and
record of
licence
contract.

91.

(1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed by or
on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the contracting parties, the Director-General shall, on
payment of the prescribed fee, record in the register
such particulars relating to the contract as the parties
thereto might wish to have so recorded :
Provided that the parties shall not be required to
disclose or have recorded any other particulars
relating to the said contract.

Rights of
licensee.

92. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in the licence

contract, the licensee shall –

(a) be entitled to do all or any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3) of
section 84 within the territory of Sri Lanka, without
limitation as to time and through application of the
patented invention.
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his lights under
the licence contract or grant sub-licences to thud
parties.

Rights of the 93.
licensor.

(1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
the licence contract, the licensor may grant further
licences to third parties in respect of the same patent
or perform all or any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3) of
section 84.

(2) Where the licence contract provides the licence to
be exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided
otherwise in such contract, the licensor shall not grant
further licences to third parties in respect of the same
patent or perform all or any of the acts referred to in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3) of
section 84.
Invalid
clauses in
licence
contracts.

94. Any term or condition in a licence contract shall be null and in

so far as it imposes upon the licensee, in the industrial or
commercial field, restrictions not derived from the rights
conferred by this Part on the owner of the patent, or unnecessary
for the safeguarding of such rights :
Provided that –

(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent or
duration of exploitation of the patented invention, or
the geographical area in or the quality or quantity of
the products in connection with, which the patented
invention may be exploited; and
(b) obligations imposed upon the licensee to abstain
from all acts capable of prejudicing the validity of the
patent.

shall not be deemed to constitute such restrictions.

Effect of
95. Where, before the expiration of the licence contract, any of
patent
the following events occur in respect of the patent application or
application patent referred to in such contract –
not being
(a) the patent application is withdrawn ;
granted or
(b) the patent application is finally rejected ;
patent being
declared null
(c) the patent is surrendered ;
and void.
(d) the patent is declared null and void ; or
(e) the registration of the licence contract is
invalidated,

the licensee shall no longer be required to make any payment to
the licensor under the licence contract, and shall be entitled to
repayment of the payments already made :
Provided that the licensor shall not be required to make any
repayment, or repayment only in part, if he can prove that any
such repayment would be inequitable under the circumstances,
in particular if the licensee has effectively profited from the
licence.

Expiry,
96. The Director-General shall –
termination
(a) if he is satisfied that a recorded licence contract
or
has expired or been terminated, record that fact in the
invalidation
register upon a request in writing to that effect signed
of licence
by or on behalf of the parties thereto ;
contract to
(b) record in the register the expiry, termination or
be recorded.
invalidation of a licence contract under any provision
of this Part.
Licence
contracts
involving
payments
abroad.

97.

(1) Where the Director-General has reasonable cause
to believe that any licence contract or any amendment
or renewal thereof”
(a) which involves the payment of royalties
abroad ; or

(b) which by reason of other circumstances
relating to such licence contract,

is detrimental to the economic development of Sri
Lanka, he shall in writing communicate such fact to
the Governor of the Central Bank and transmit all
papers in his custody relevant to a decision on such
matter to the Governor of the Central Bank.
(2) Where on receipt of any communication under
subsection (1) the Governor of the Central Bank
informs the Director-General in writing that the said
licence contract or any amendment or renewal thereof
is detrimental to the economic development of Sri
Lanka, the Director-General shall cancel and invalidate
the record of such contract in the register.
(3) The provisions of this section shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to assignments and transmissions.
(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to sub-licence.
(5) The provisions of this Chapter shall have no
application to a licence referred to in subsection (2) of
section 86.

Surrender of 98.
Patent.

CHAPTER XVIII
SURRENDER AND NULLITY OR PATENT
(1) The registered owner of a patent may surrender the
patent by a declaration in writing signed by him or by
any person authorized by him on his behalf and shall
submit it to the Director-General.

(2) The surrender may be limited to one or more claims
of the patent.

(3) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the said
declaration record it in the register or cause it to be
registered and shall cause such record to be published
in the Gazette.
(4) The surrender shall take effect from the date of
receipt of such declaration by the Director-General.

(5) Where a licence contract in respect of a patent is
recorded in the register, the Director-General shall not,
in the absence of provision to the contrary in such
licence contract, accept or record the said surrender
except upon receipt of a signed declaration by which
every licensee of sub-licensee on record consents to
the said surrender, unless the requirement of his
consent is expressly waived in the licence contract.
Nullity of
patent.

99.

(1) The Court may on the application of any person ,
showing a legitimate interest, or of any Competent
Authority including the Director General, to which the
owner of the patent and every assignee, licensee or
sub licensee on record shall be made party declare the
patent null and void on any one or mote of the
following grounds –
(a) that what is claimed as an invention in the
patent is not an invention within the meaning
of subsection (1) of section 62. or is excluded
from protection under subsection (3)of
section 62, or subsection (1) o1 section 79 or
is not patentable due to the failure to satisfy
the requirements of sections 63, 64, 65 and
66 , or
(b) that the description or the claims, fails to
satisfy the requirements of subsections (3)
and (4) of section 71 ; or

(c) that any drawings required for the
understanding of the claimed invention have
not been furnished ; or
(d) that the right to the patent belongs to a
person other than the person to whom the
patent was granted

Provided that the patent has not been assigned to the
person to whom the right to the patent belongs
(2)

(a) Where the provisions of subsection (1)
apply only to some of the claims or some pails
of a claim, such claims or parts of a claim may
be declared null and void by the court.

(b) The nullity of part of a claim shall be
declared in the form of a corresponding
limitation of the claim in question.
(3)

(a) An assignee, licensee or sub licensee, as
the case may be, who has been made party to
the application under subsection (1), shall be
entitled to join in the proceedings in the
absence of any provision to the contrary in
any contract or agreement with the owner of
the patent.

(b) Where the application to Court is on the
ground referred to in paragraph (d) of
subsection (1), the applicant shall give notice
of the application to the person to whom the
right to the patent is alleged to belong.
Date and
effect of
nullity.

100.

(1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring total or
partial nullity of a patent, the patent shall be deemed
to have been null and void, totally or partially, as the
case may be, as from the dale of the grant of such
patent.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the DirectorGeneral who shall record the said declaration in the
register and cause it to be published in the Gazette.
PART V

CHAPTER XIX
MARKS AND TRADE NAMES
Definitions. 101. For the purposes of this Part, unless the context otherwise
requires –

“certification mark” means a mark indicating that the goods or
services in connection with which it is used are certified by the
proprietor of the mark in respect of origin material, mode of
manufacture or goods or performance of services, quality
accuracy or other characteristics;

“collective mark” means any visible sign designated as such and
serving to distinguish the origin or any other common
characteristic of goods or services of different enterprises which
use the mark under the control of the registered owner;
“enterprise” means any business industry or other activity earned
on by ,in individual partnership company or co operative society
wherever registered or incorporated and whether registered of
not under any law for the time being in force relating to
companies, co-operative societies or businesses engaged in or
proposing to engage in any business and includes any business
undertaking of the Government or any State Corporation
whether carrying on business in Sri Lanka or otherwise;

“false trade description” means a trade description which is false
or misleading in a material respect as regards the goods or
services to which it is applied and includes every alteration of a
trade description whether by way of addition, effacement or
otherwise, where that alteration makes the description false or
misleading in a material respect, and the fact that a trade
description is a trade mark or part of a trade mark shall not
prevent such trade description being a false trade description
within the meaning of this Part ;
“geographical indication” means an indication which identifies
any goods as originating in the territory of a country, or a region
or locality in that territory, where a given quality, reputation or
other characteristic of the good is essentially attributable to its
geographical origin ;
“goods” means anything which is the subject of trade,
manufacture or merchandise and includes services ;

“indication of source” means any expression or sign used to
indicate that a product or service originates in a given country or
group of countries region, or locality ;
“mark” means a trade mark or service mark ;

“name” includes any abbreviation or a name ;

“person” means manufacturer dealer trader or owner and
includes any body of persons, corporate unincorporate ;

“service mark” means any visible sign setting to distinguish the
services of one enterprise from those of an other enterprise ,
“trade description” means any description, statement or other
indication direct or indirect –

(a) as to the number quantity measure, gauge, or
weight of any goods , or

(b) as to the place or country in which any goods were
made or produced ; or

(c) as to the mode of manufacturing or producing any
goods ; or
(d) as to the material of which any goods are
composed ; or
(e) as to any goods being the subject of an existing
copyright, related rights, industrial design or patent or
any other matter protected under this Act; or
(f) as to the quality, kind or nature of the services; or

(g) as to the standard of quality of any goods,
according to a classification commonly used or
recognized in the trade ; or
(h) as to the fitness for purpose, strength, performance
or behaviour of any goods,

and the use of any figure, word or mark which,
according to the custom of the trade, is commonly
taken to be an indication of any of the above matters
shall be deemed to be a trade description within the
meaning of this Part ;
“trade mark” means any visible sign serving to distinguish the
goods of one enterprise from those of another enterprise ; and

“trade name” means the name or designation identifying the
enterprise of a natural or legal person.

Admissibility 102.
of marks.

CHAPTER XX
ADMISSIBILITY OF MARKS
(1) The exclusive right to a mark conferred by this Part
shall be acquired, subject to the succeeding
provisions, by registration.

(2) Registration of a mark may be granted to the
person who –
(a) is the first to fulfill the conditions of a valid
application ; or

(b) is the first to validly claim the earliest
priority for his application :
Provided however such mark shall not be inadmissible
under sections 103 and 104.

(3) A mark may consist in particular of arbitrary or
fanciful designations names pseudonyms geographical
names slogans devices reliefs letters numbers labels
envelopes emblems prints stamp seals vignettes
selvedges borders and edgings combinations or
arrangements of colours and shapes of goods or
containers.
Marks
103.
inadmissible
on objective
grounds.

(1) A mark shall not be registered –

(a) which consists of shapes or forms imposed
by the inherent nature of the goods or
services or by their industrial function ;

(b) which consists exclusively of a sign or
indication which may serve, in the course of
trade, to designate the kind, quality, quantity,
intended purpose, value, place of origin or
time of production, or of supply, of the goods
or services concerned ;

(c) which consists exclusively of a sign or
indication which has become in the current
language of in the bona fide and established
practices of trade in Sri Lanka, a customary
designation or the goods or services
concerned ;

(d) which, is incapable of distinguishing the
goods or services of one enterprise from
those of another enterprise ;
(e) which consists of any scandalous design or
is contrary to morality or public order or
which, in the opinion of the Director General
or of any court to which the matter may be
referred to as the case may be, is likely to
offend the religious or racial susceptibilities or
any community;

(f) which is likely to mislead trade circles or
the public as to the nature the source,
geographical indication the manufacturing
process, the characteristics, or the suitability
for then purposes, of the goods of services
concerned ;
(g) which does not represent in a special or
particular manner the name of an individual
or enterprise ;
(h) which is, according to its ordinal
signification, a geographical name or surname
;

(i) which reproduces or imitates armorial
bearings, flags or other emblems, initials,
names or abbreviated names of any State or
any
intergovernmental
international
organization or any organization created by
international convention, unless authorized by
the Competent Authority of that State or
international organization ;
(j) which reproduces or imitates official signs
or hallmarks of a State, unless authorized by
the Competent Authority of that State ;

(k) which resembles in such a way as to be
likely to mislead the public, a mark or a
collective mark or a certification mark the
registration of which has expired and has not
been renewed during a period of two years
preceding the filing of the application for the
registration of the mark in question or where
its renunciation, removal or nullity has been
recorded in the register during a period of
two years preceding the filing of the
application for the mark in question ;
(l) the registration of which has been sought
in respect of goods or services the trading of
which is prohibited in Sri Lanka ;

(m) which consists of any other word or
definition as may be prescribed.
(2) The Director-General shall in applying the
provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) , (d), (f), (g) and (A), of
subsection (1), have regard to all the factual
circumstances and, in particular, the length of time the
mark has been in use in Sri Lanka or in other countries
and the fact that the mark is held to be distinctive in
other countries or in trade circles.
Marks
104.
inadmissible
by reason of
third-party
rights.

(1) The Director-General shall not register a mark-

(a) which resembles, in such a way as to be
likely to mislead the public, a mark already
validly filed or registered by a third party, or
subsequently filed by a person validly
claiming priority, in respect of identical or
similar goods or services in connection with
which the use of such mark may be likely to
mislead the public ;

(b) which resembles, in such a way as to be
likely to mislead the public, an unregistered
mark used earlier in Sri Lanka by a third party

in connection with identical or similar goods
or services, if the applicant is aware, or could
not have been unaware, of such use ;

(c) which resembles, in such a way as to be
likely to mislead the public, a trade name
already used in Sri Lanka by a third party, it
the applicant is aware. or could not have been
unaware, of such use ;

(d) if it is identical with, or misleadingly similar
to, or constitutes or translation or
transliteration or transcription of a mark or
trade name which is well Known in Sri Lanka
for identical of similar goods or services of a
third party, or such mark or trade name is well
known and registered in Sri Lanka for goods
or services which are not identical or similar
to these in respect of which registration is
applied for provided in the latter case the use
of the mark in relation to those goods or
services would indicate a connection between
those goods or services and the owner of the
well known mark and that the interests of the
owner of the well known mark are likely to be
damaged by such use ;
(e) which infringes other third party or rights
or is contrary to the provisions of Chapter
XXXII relating to the prevention of unfair
competition ;

(f) which is filed by the agent or a
representative of a third party who is the
owner of such mark in another country
without the authorization of such owner,
unless the agent or representative justifies his
action.
(2) the following criteria shall be taken into account in
determining whether a mark is well known:-

(i) particular facts and circumstances relating
to each mark ;

(ii) any fact or circumstance from which it may
be inferred that the mark is well known ;

(iii) the degree of knowledge or recognition of
the mark of the relevant sector of the public ;
(iv) the duration, extent and geographical
area of use of the mark ;

(v) the duration, extent and geographical area
of promotion of the mark, including
advertising or publicity and the presentation
at any fair or exhibition of the goods or
services to which the mark applies ;

(vi) the duration and geographical area of the
registration or the application for registration,
of the mark, to the extent that they reflect
use or recognition of the mark ;
(vii) the record of successful enforcement of
rights in the mark, in particular, the extent to
which the mark has been recognized as being
well known, by the Competent Authority ;
(viii) the value associated with the mark ;

(ix) the criteria specified in this subsection to
determine whether a mark is well known or
not shall not be exclusive nor exhaustive ;
(x) for the purpose of this subsection –

(a) “Competent Authority” means an
administrative, judicial or quasi-judicial
authority which is competent, to
determine whether a mark is well
known mark or to enforce the
protection given to a well known mark
;
(b) “relevant sector of public” includes
:–

(i) actual or potential consumers
of the types of goods or
services to which the mark
applies ;
(ii) persons involved in channels
of distribution of the types of
goods or services to which the
mark applies ;

(iii) any person or a body of
persons dealing with the type of
goods or services to which the
mark applies.
(3) The Director-General shall in applying the
provisions of paragraphs (a) to (e) of subsection (1),
have regard to the fact that the third parties referred
to therein have consented to the registration of such
mark
Trust not to 105. There shall not be entered in the register a notice of any
be entered Trust expressed, implied of constructive, nor shall any such
in register. notice be receivable by the Director General

Requirements106.
of
application.

CHAPTER XXI
REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICATION AND
PROCEDURE OR REGISTRATION
(1) An application for registration of a mark shall be
made to the Director General in the prescribed form
and shall contain –
(a) a request for the registration of the mark ,

(b) the name, address of the applicant and, if
he is resident outside Sri Lanka a postal
address for service in Sri Lanka .

(c) five copies of a representation of the mark
,
(d) a clear and complete list of the particulars
goods or services in respect of which
registration of the mark is requested with an
indication of the corresponding class or class
in the international classification, as may be
prescribed
(2) Where the application is tiled through an agent, it
shall be accompanied by a power of attorney granted
to such agent by the applicant
Right of
priority.

107. An applicant for registration of a mark who wishes to avail

himself or the priority of an earlier application tiled in a
Convention country shall, within six months of the date of such
earlier application, append to his application a written
declaration indicating the date and number of the earlier
application, the name of the applicant and the country in which
he or his predecessor m title filed such application and shall,
within a period of three months from the date of the later
application filed in Sri Lanka, furnish a copy of the earlier
application certified as correct by the appropriate authority of
the country where such earlier application was filed.

Temporary 108.
protection of
mark
exhibited at
international
exhibition.

(1) An applicant for registration of a mark who has
exhibited goods bearing the mark or tendered services
under the mark at an official or officially recognized
international exhibition and who applies for
registration of the mark within six months from the
date on which the goods bearing the mark or services
under the mark were mark exhibited or services
respectively at such exhibition, shall on request, be
deemed to have applied for registration of that mark
on the date on which the goods hearing the mark or
the services rendered under the mark were first
exhibited or rendered at such exhibition.
(2) Evidence of the exhibition of the goods bearing the
mark or the services rendered under the mark shall be
by a certificate issued by the appropriate Authority of
the exhibition stating the date on which the mark was
first used at such exhibition in connection with such
goods or services.
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not
extend to any other period of priority claimed by the
applicant.

Application 109. An application for registration of a mark shall not be
fee.
entertained unless the prescribed fee has been paid to the
Director-General.
Examination 110.
of
application a
to form.

(1) The Director-General shall examine whether the
applicant for registration of the mark satisfies the
requirements specified in sections 106 and 109 and
where applicable the provisions of sections 107 and
108.
(2) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provision of sections 106 and 109, the DirectorGeneral shall refuse to register the mark :

Provided however the Director-General shall first
notify the applicant of any defect in the application
and shall afford him an opportunity to rectify such
defect within three months from the date of receipt of
such notification.

(3) The date on which the applicant rectifies such
defect shall be deemed to be the date of receipt of the
application for registration.
(4) Where the applicant fails to comply with the
provisions of section 107 or 108, the Director- General
shall not, in connection with the legislation or the
mark, make any reference to the priority claimed.

(5) Where the applicant complies with the provisions
of sections 107 and 108, the Director-General shall in
connection with the registration of the mark record
the priority claimed or the date of the certified use of
the mark at an international exhibition.
(6) Where the Director-General refuses to register a
mark, he shall if so requested by the applicant, state in
writing the grounds of his decision.
Registration 111.
of mark after
further
examination
and
publication
of mark.

(1) Where the applicant complies with the provisions
of sections 106 and 109, the Director-General shall
examine the mark in relation to the provisions of
sections 103 and 104.
(2) Where the mark is inadmissible under section 103
or 104 the Director-General shall notify the applicant
accordingly stating in writing the grounds on which
registration of the mark is refused.

(3) Where the applicant is dissatisfied with all or any of
the grounds stated by the Director-General in the
notification referred to in subsection (2) he may, within
a period of one month from the date of such
notification, make his submissions against such refusal
to the Director-General, in writing .
(4) On receipt of any submissions the Director-General
may inform the applicant that he has been granted a
hearing and the date, time and place of such hearing.

(5) The Director- General may, after such inquiry as he
thinks fit, refuse to accept the application for
registration of the mark, or may accept it absolutely or
subject to conditions amendments or modifications or
to such limitations, if any, as to the mode or place of
user or otherwise as he may think fit to impose.
(6) In case of any refusal or conditional acceptance of
an application for registration of a mark, the DirectorGeneral shall, if required by the applicant within a
period of three months from such refusal or
conditional acceptance, state in writing the grounds of
his decision.
(7) Where the Director General is of the opinion that
the mark is admissible under section 103 or 104 he
may request the applicant to pay the prescribed fee
within a prescribed period for publication of the
application.

(8) The Director General shall refuse registration of the
mark where the fee for publication of the application is
not paid within the prescribed period.
(9)

(a) If the fee for publication is paid within the
prescribed period the Director-General shall
proceed to publish the application setting out
the date of application, the representation of
the mark, the goods or services in respect of
which registration of the mark is requested
with an indication of the corresponding class
or classes, the name and address of the
applicant and, if the applicant is resident
outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service
in Sri Lanka, the priority claimed, if any, or the
date of certified use of the mark at an
international exhibition.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (7), (8) and paragraph (a) of this
subsection relating to the prescribed fee and
the publication, the Director-General may, at
his discretion, require the applicant by notice
in writing to publish an application as referred
to in paragraph (a) of this subsection. Where
the applicant fails or neglects to publish such
application within a period of three months
from the date of such notice the application
may be refused.

(10) Where any person considers that the mark is
inadmissible on one or more of the grounds specified
in section 103 or 104 he may, within a period of three
months from the date of publication of the application,
give to the Director-General in the prescribed form,
and together with the prescribed fee. notice of
opposition to such registration stating his grounds of
opposition accompanied by evidence to substantiate
such grounds
(11) Where notice of opposition has not been received
by the Director- General within the period specified in
subsection (10) of this section, the Director General
shall register the mark

(12) Where, within the period specified in subsection
(10) of this section notice of grounds of opposition in
the prescribed form is received by the DirectorGeneral, together with the prescribed tee, he shall
serve a copy of such grounds of opposition on the
applicant and shall request him to present his
observations on those grounds in writing accompanied
by evidence to support his application within a period
of three months.
(13) On receipt of the observations of the applicant
the Director-General shall after hearing the parties, if
he considers such hearing necessary, decide, as
expeditiously as possible, whether such mark should
be registered or not If the Director General decides
that the mark can be registered, then it –
(a) no appeal is preferred against his decision,
upon the expiry of the period within which an
appeal may be preferred against his decision ,

(b) an appeal is preferred against his decision,
upon the determination of such appeal,
the Director-General shall accordingly register such
mark
(14) The Director-General may allow a reasonable
extension of the prescribed period within which any
act has to be done or any fee has to be paid under this
section
Non
completion
of
registration.

112. Where, by reason of default on the part of the applicant, the

registration of a mark is not completed within twelve months
from the date of receipt by the Director-General of the
application, the Director-General shall, after giving notice of noncompletion to the applicant in writing in the prescribed form,
treat the application as abandoned, unless it is completed within
the time specified in that behalf in such notice.

Register of 113.
marks and
issue of
certificate.

(1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain a
register called the “Register of Marks” wherein shall be
recorded in the order of their registration, all
registered marks and such other matters relating to
marks as are authorized or directed by this Part to be
so recorded or may from time to time be prescribed.

(2) The registration of a mark shall include a
representation of the mark and shall specify its
number, the name and address of the registered
owner and, if the registered owner’s address is outside
Sri Lanka, a postal address for service in Sri Lanka, the
dates of application and registration ; if priority is
validly claimed, an indication of that fact and the
number, date and country of the application on the
basis or which the priority is claimed, if a valid
certificate has been filed relating to the use of a mark
at an international exhibition, the contents of such
certificate, the list of goods and services in respect of
which registration of the mark has been granted with
an indication of the corresponding class or classes.
(3) Upon the registration of a mark the DirectorGeneral shall issue to the registered owner thereof a
certificate of registration and shall, at the request of
the registered owner, send such certificate to him by
.registered post to his last recorded postal address in
Sri Lanka, or if he is resident outside Sri Lanka to his
last recorded postal address in Sri Lanka.
Publication 114. The Director-General shall cause to be published in the
of registered Gazette, in the prescribed form, all registered marks in the order
marks
of their registration, including in respect of each mark so
published reference to such particulars as may be prescribed.

Examination 115. Any person may examine the register and may obtain
of register certified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee.
and certified
copies.
Associated 116. Where application is made for the registration of a mark
marks.
identical with or so closely resembling a mark of the applicant
already on the register for the same goods or services, the same
description of goods or services as to be likely to mislead or
cause confusion if used by a person other than the applicant, the
Director-General may require as a condition of registration that
such marks shall be entered on the register as associated marks.
Assignment 117. Associated marks shall be assignable or transmissible only
and user of as a whole and not separately, but they shall for all other
associated purposes be deemed to have been registered as separate marks.
marks.
Provided that where under the provisions of this Part user of a
registered mark is required to be proved for any purpose, the
Director-General may, in so tar as is considered necessary accept
the user of an associated registered mark, or of the mark, with
additions or alterations not substantially affecting its identity, as
an equivalent for such user.

Duration of 118.
registration.

CHAPTER XXII
DURATION OF REGISTRATION OF A MARK
(1) Subject and without prejudice to the other
provisions of this Part, registration of a mark shall
expire , ten years after the date of registration of such
mark.

(2) A mark when registered shall be registered with
reference to the date of receipt of the application for
registration by the Director-General, and such date
shall he deemed for the purposes of this Part to be the
date of registration.
Renewal.

119.

(1) Registration of a mark may be renewed for
consecutive periods of ten years each on payment of
the prescribed fee.

(2) Renewal of registration of a mark shall not be
subject to any further examination of the mark by the
Director- General or to opposition by any person.
(3) The renewal fee shall he paid within the twelve
months preceding the dale of expiration of the period
of registration :

Provided, however, that a period of grace of six
months shall be allowed for the payment of the fee
after the date of such expiration, upon payment of
such surcharge as may be prescribed.
(4) The Director-General shall record in the register
and cause to be published in the Gazette in the
prescribed form all renewals of registration specifying
any removal from the lists of goods or services.

(5) Where the renewal fee has not been paid within
such period or such extended period specified in
subsection (3), the Director-General shall remove the
mark from the register.
Alteration of 120. The registered owner of any mark may apply in the
registered prescribed manner and with prescribed fee to the Directormark.
General for leave to add to or alter such mark in any manner not
substantially affecting the identity of the same, and the DirectorGeneral may refuse such leave or may grant the same on such
terms and subject to such limitations as to mode or place of use
as he may think fit. If leave be granted, the mark as altered shall
be published in the prescribed manner.

Rights of
registered
owner.

CHAPTER XXIII
RIGHTS OF THE REGISTERED OWNER OF A
MARK
121.

(1) Subject and without prejudice to the other
provisions of this Part, the registered owner of a mark
shall have the following exclusive rights in relation to
the mark :(a) to use the mark ;

(b) to assign or transmit the registration of
the mark ;
(c) to conclude licence contracts.

(2) Without the consent of the registered owner of the
mark third parties are precluded from the following
acts :-

(a) any use of the mark, or a sign resembling it
in such a way as to be likely to mislead the
public, for goods or services in respect of
which the mark is registered or for similar
goods or services in connection with which
the use of the mark or sign is likely to mislead
the public ; and
(b) any other use of the mark, or of a sign or
trade name resembling it, without just cause
and in conditions likely to be prejudicial to the
interests of the registered owner of the mark.

(3) The application (whether by way of printing,
painting or otherwise) or the affixing in Sri Lanka by a
third party, of a mark or any sign resembling such
mark in such a way as to be likely to mislead the
public, on or in connection with, goods in respect of
which such mark has been registered (whether such
goods are intended for sale in Sri Lanka, or for export
from Sri Lanka) shall be deemed to be an act
prohibited under Subsection (2).
(4) The court shall presume the likelihood of
misleading the public in instances where a person uses
a mark identical to the registered mark for identical
goods or services in respect of which the mark is
registered.

Limitation of 122. The registration or the mark shall not confer on its
registered registered owner the right to preclude third parties –
owners’s
(a) from using then bona fide names, addresses,
rights.
pseudonyms, a geographical name, or exact
indications concerning the kind, quality, quantity,
destination, value, place of origin or time of
production or of supply of then goods and services, in
so far as such use is confined to the purposes of mere
identification or information and cannot mislead the
public as to the source of the goods or services.
(b) from using the mark in relation to goods lawfully
manufactured, imported, offered for sale, sold, used or
stocked in Sri Lanka under that mark, provided that
such goods have not undergone any change.

Assignment 123.
and
transmission
of
applications
and
registrations.

CHAPTER XXIV
ASSIGNMENT, AND TRANSMISSION OF
APPLICATIONS AND REGISTRATIONS OF
MARKS
(1) An application for registration or the registration of
a mark may be assigned or transmitted independently
of the transfer of all of part of the enterprise using the
mark, in respect of all or part of the goods or services
for which the application was filed or the mark
registered and such assignment or transmission shall
be in writing signed by or on behalf of the contracting
parties.

(2) Such assignment or transmission shall be invalid if
the purpose or effect thereof is to mislead the public,
in particular in respect of the nature, source,
manufacturing process, characteristics suitability for
their purpose of the goods or services to which the
mark is applied.

(3) Any person becoming entitled by assignment or
transmission to an application for registration or the
registration of a mark may apply to the DirectorGeneral in the prescribed manner to have such
assignment or transmission recorded in the register.
(4) No such assignment or transmission shall he
recorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has
been paid to the Director-General.
(5) No such assignment or transmission shall have
effect against third parties unless so recorded in the
register.

Interpretation.124.

CHAPTER XXV
LICENCE CONTRACTS
(1) For the purposes of this Part licence contract
means any contract by which the registered owner of a
mark (hereinafter referred to as “the licensor”) grants
to another person or enterprise (hereinafter referred to
as “the licensee”) a licence to use the mark for all or
part of the goods or services in respect of which the
mark is registered
(2) Use of the mark by the licensee shall be deemed to
be use of the mark by the registered owner.

Form and
record of
licence
contract.

125.

(1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed by or
on behalf of the contacting parties.

(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the contracting parties, the Director-General shall, on
payment of the prescribed fee, record in the register
such particulars relating to the contract as the parties
thereto might wish to have recorded :
Provided that the parties shall not be required to
disclose or have recorded any other particular relating
to such contract.

Rights of
licensee.

126. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in the licence

contract, the licensee shall –

(a) be entitled to use the mark within the territory of
Sri Lanka, during the entire period of registration of
the mark, including renewals, in respect of all the
goods or services for which the mark is registered ;
(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights
under the licence contract or grant sub-licences to
third parties.

Rights of
licensor.

127.

(1) In the absence of any provision to the contrary in
the licence contract the licensor may grant further

licences to thud parties in respect of the same mark or
himself use the mark.
(2) Where the licence contract provides the licence to
be exclusive, the licensor shall not grant further
licences to third parties in respect of the same mark or
himself use the mark unless the contract otherwise
provides.
Nullity of 128.
licence
contract and
certain
clauses.

(1) A licence contract shall be null and void in the
absence of stipulations ensuring effective control by
the licensor of the quality of the goods or services in
respect of which the mark may be used.
(2) Any clause of condition in a licence contract shall
be null and void in so far as it imposes upon the
licensee restrictions not derived from the rights
conferred by this Part on the registered owner of the
mark, or which are unnecessary for the safeguarding
of such rights
Provided that –

(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent,
duration of use of the mark or the
geographical area in or the quality or quantity
of the goods or services in connection with
which the mark may be used ,

(b) restrictions justified by the stipulations
referred to in subsection (1), and
(c) obligations imposed upon the licensee to
abstain from all acts capable or prejudicing
the validity of the registration of the mark,

shall not be deemed to constitute a restrictions as
mentioned above.
Cancellation 129. The Court may on the application of any person having a
of licence legitimate interest, or of any Authority including the Directorcontracts. General, to which the registered owner of mark and every
assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on record shall be made party,
annul and cancel the said contract if(a) the licensor has lost effective control over the
quality of the goods or services in respect of which the
mark is used;
(b) the licensee has used the mark in such a way as to
mislead or confuse the public.
Licence
contracts
involving
payments
abroad.

130.

(1) Where the Director-General has reasonable cause
to believe that any licence contract or any amendment
of renewal thereof
(a) which involves the payment of royalties
abroad; or
(b) which by reason of other circumstances
relating to such licence contract,

is detrimental to the economic development of Sri
Lanka he shall in writing communicate such fact to the
Governor of the Central Bank and transmit all papers
in his custody relevant to a decision on such matter, to
the Governor of the Central Bank. ;

(2) Where the Governor of the Central Bank on receipt
of any communication under subsection (1) informs
the Director-General in writing that the said licence
contract or my amendment or renewal thereof is
detrimental to the dynamic development of Sri Lanka
the Director-General shall cancel and invalidate the
record of such contract in the register.
(3) The provisions of this section shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to assignments and transmissions.

(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to sub-licences.
Effect of
nullity of
registration
on licence
contract.

131. Where, before the expiration of the licence Contract, the

registration is declared nun and void, the licensee shall no longer
be required to make any payment to the licensor under the
licence contract, and shall be entitled to repayment of the
payments already made:
Provided that the licensor shall not be required to make any
repayment, or shall be required to make repayment only in part,
to the extent that he can prove that any such repayment would
be inequitable under the circumstances, in particular if the
licensee has effectively profited from the licence.

Expiry,
132. The Director-General shall
termination
(a) if he is satisfied that a licence contract recorded
or
under subsection (2) of section 125 has expired or
invalidation
been terminated, record that fact in the register upon
of licence
a request made in writing to that effect signed by or
contract.
on behalf of the parties thereto;
(b) record in the register the expiry, termination,
annulment or invalidation of a licence contract under
any provision of this Part.

Renunciation133.
of
registration.

CHAPTER XXVI
RENUNCIATION AND NULLITY OF
REGISTRATION OF A MARK
(1) The registered owner of a mark may renounce the
registration, either wholly or in respect of part of the
goods or services for which the mark is registered, by
a declaration in writing signed by him or on his behalf
and forwarded to the Director-General.
(2) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the said
declaration, record it in the register and cause such
record to be published in the Gazette.

(3) The renunciation shall take effect from the date
that the Director-General receives the said declaration.
(4) Where a licence contract in respect of a mark is
recorded ,the register the Director-General shall not, in
the absence of provision to the contrary in such
licence contract, accept or record the said
renunciation except upon receipt of a signed
declaration by which any assignee, licensee or sublicensee on record consents to the renunciation, unless
his consent is expressly waived in the licence contract.
Nullity of 134.
registration.

(1) The Court may on the application of any person
showing a legitimate interest, or of any competent
Authority including the Director-General, to which the
registered owner of the mark and every assignee,
licensee or sub-licensee on record shall be made party,
declare the registration of the mark null and void if its
registration is precluded under the provisions of
sections 103 and 104 :
Provided, however, that grounds of nullity which do
not exist on the date of the application to Court, shall
not be taken into account.

(2) Where the grounds for nullity of registration of the
mark exist in respect of only part of the goods or
services for which the mark is registered, nullity of the
registration shall be declared for that part only for
such goods or services.
(3) An application for a declaration of nullity based on
any of the grounds specified in subsection (1) of
section 104 shall be made within five years from the
date of issue of the certificate of registration under
subsection (3) of section 113.
Date and
effect of
nullity.

135.

(1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring total or
partial nullity of registration of a mark, the registration
shall be deemed to have been null and void totally or
partially, as the case may be, from the date of such
registration.
(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final the
Registrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General
of such fact and he shall record the said declaration in
the register and cause it to be published in the
Gazette.

Removal of 136.
mark.

CHAPTER XXVII
REMOVAL OF MARK
(1) The Court may on the application of any person
showing a legitimate interest, or of any Competent
Authority including the Director-General, to which the
registered owner of the mark and every assignee,
licensee or sub-licencee on record shall be made party,
remove any registered mark from the register(a) if the registered owner has, without valid
grounds, failed to use the mark within Sri
Lanka or cause it to be used within Sri Lanka
by virtue of a licence, during five consecutive
years immediately preceding the date of the
application to Court;

(b) if the registered owner has caused,
provoked or tolerated the transformation of
the mark into a generic name for one or more
of the goods or services in respect of which
the mark is registered so that in trade circles
and in the eyes of the public its significance
as a mark has been lost.
(2) In any application under paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) the Court may take into account the
fact that non-use of the mark was due to
circumstances beyond the control of the registered
owner. The Court shall not take into account the lack
of funds of the registered owner as a ground for nonuse of the mark.
(3) The use of a mark –

(a) in a form differing, in elements which do
not alter the distinctive character of the mark,
from the form in which it was registered, shall
not be a ground for removal of the mark ;

(b) in connection with one or more of the
goods or services belonging to any given
class in respect of which the mark is
registered, shall suffice to prevent the
removal of the mark in respect of all the other
goods or services of the same class.
Date and
137. Upon a final decision of the Court in respect of removing
effect of
any registered mark from the register –
removal of
(1) the Court may, taking into account the date of the
mark.
events and other circumstances which occasioned the
removal of the mark, determine the date on which the
registration of the mark shall be deemed to have
ceased to have any legal effect;
(2) the Registrar of the Court shall communicate the
decision of the Court to the Director-General who
shall, if the Court decides that the mark be removed,
enter in the register a record of such removal and
cause the decision of Court to be published in the
Gazette.

Collective
marks

138.

CHAPTER XXVIII
COLLECTIVE MARKS
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter the ,
provisions relating to marks shall apply to collective
marks.
(2) In relation to a collective mark, the reference in
section 101 (signs of which a trade mark or service
mark may consist) to distinguish goods or services of
one enterprise from those of other enterprises shall be
construed as a reference to distinguish goods or
services of the enterprise which uses the collective
mark from those of other enterprises.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 103 a
collective mark may be registered which consists of a
sign or indication which may serve, in trade, to indicate
the geographical origin of the goods or services :

Provided, however, the owner of such a mark shall not
be entitled to prohibit the use of such sign or
indication in accordance with honest practices in
industrial or commercial matters and in particular, by a
person who is entitled to use a geographical name.
Application 139.
for
registration
of collective
marks.

(1) An application for registration of a collective mark
shall not be entertained unless in such application the
mark is designated as a collective mark and the
application is accompanied by a copy of conditions
governing the use of the mark duly certified by the
applicant.

(2) The conditions governing the use of the mark
under subsection (1) shall define the common
characteristics or quality of the goods or services
which the collective mark shall designate, the
conditions in which, and the person by whom it may
be used, the exercise of effective control of the use of
the mark and proper sanctions against the use of the
mark contrary to such conditions. They shall contain
further prescribed requirements under this section.

(3) A collective mark shall not be registered unless the
conditions governing the use of the mark –

(a) comply with the provisions of subsection
(2) and any requirement imposed by any
regulation made thereunder ;

(b) are not contrary to public policy or
accepted principles of morality.
(4)

(a) An authorised user shall, subject to any
agreement to the contrary between him and
registered owner of the collective mark, be
entitled to require the owner to take
infringement proceedings in respect of any
matter which affects his interests.
(b) If the owner-

(i) refuses to do so ; or

(ii) fails to do so within two months
after being called upon to do so,
the authorised user may bring the
proceedings in his own name as if he was the
owner. The registered owner shall be made
party to the action.

(c) In infringement proceedings brought by
the owner of a registered collective mark, any
loss suffered or likely to be suffered by any
authorised user shall be taken into
consideration by Court.
(5) The registration of the collective mark may be
removed on the following grounds in addition to the
grounds specified in section 136 :-

(i) that the manner in which the mark has
been used by the owner has caused it to
become liable to mislead the public to
understand or think that the mark has state
patronage ;
(ii) that the owner has failed to observe, or to
secure the observance of, the conditions
governing use of the mark ; or

(iii) that an amendment of the conditions has
been made so that the conditions –
(a) no longer comply with subsection
(2) and any other condition imposed
by regulation made under this Act; or
(b) are contrary to public policy or to
the accepted principles of morality.

(6) The registration of a collective mark shall be
declared null and void in addition to the grounds of
nullity specified in section 134 if it was registered in
violation of the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and
(3) of section 139.
Registration 140.
and
publication
of collective
mark .

(1) Registration of a collective mark shall be in such
Part of the register as the Director-General may decide
and a the conditions governing the use of the mark
shall be appended to the registration.

(2) The publication of an application for a collective
mark in accordance with subsection (9) of section 111
shall include a summary of the conditions to be
appended to the registration.
(3) When a collective mark, is registered under
subsection (1) it shall be deemed in all respects to be a
registered mark.

(4) The conditions governing the use of a registered
collective mark shall be open for public inspection in
the same way as the register.
Changes in 141.
condition
governing
the use of
collective
marks.

(1) The registered owner of a collective mark shall
notify the Director-General in the prescribed manner
of any change or amendments effected in the
conditions governing the use of the collective mark.
(2) Any notification of such change or amendment
shall be recorded in the register on payment of the
prescribed fee. Any such change or amendment in the
condition shall be effectual only if they have been
recorded.

(3) The Director-General shall cause a summary of
such changes and amendments made in the
conditions and recorded under subsection (2) to be
published in the Gazette.

Certification 142.
marks.

CHAPTER XXIX
CERTIFICATION MARKS
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, provisions
relating to marks shall apply to certification marks.
(2) In relation to a certification mark the reference in
section 101 (signs of which a trade mark or service
mark may consist) to distinguish goods or services of
one enterprise from those of another enterprise shall
be construed as a reference to distinguish goods or
services which are certified from those which are not
certified.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 103, a
certification mark which consists of a sign or indication
which may serve in trade to designate the
geographical origin of the goods and services may be
registered :
Provided, however, the owner of such mark is not
entitled to prohibit the use of such sign or indication in
accordance with honest practices in industrial or
commercial matters and in particular by a person who
is entitled to use a geographical name.

(4) An application for registration of a certification
mark shall not be filed unless in the application the
mark is designated as a certification mark and is
accompanied by a copy of the conditions governing
the use of the mark duly certified by the applicant.

(5) The conditions shall indicate the name of the
person authorised to use the mark, the characteristics
to be certified by the mark, how the owner is to test
those characteristics and to supervise the use of the
mark, the fees (if any) to be paid in connection with
the operation of the mark and the procedures for
resolving disputes. They may in addition contain
further prescribed requirements under this section.
(6) A certification mark shall not be registered

(a) if the owner of the certification mark
carries on a business involving the supply of
goods or services of the kind certified ; and
(b) unless the conditions governing the use of
the mark,-

(i) comply with the provisions of
subsection (5) and any other
requirement imposed by regulations
made under that subsection ; and
(ii) are not contrary to public policy or
accepted principles of morality.

(7) In infringement proceedings brought by the owner
of the registered certification mark any loss suffered,
or likely to be suffered, by any authorised user shall be
taken into account; and the Court may give such
directions as it thinks fit as to the extent to which the
owner is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary remedy
on behalf of such users.

(8) Apart from the grounds of removal of a mark
provided for in section 136, the registration of a
certification mark may be removed on the ground –
(a) that the owner has commenced such a
business as is mentioned in paragraph (a) of
subsection (6) ;

(b) that the manner in which the mark has
been used by the owner has caused it to
become liable to mislead the public as to the
character of significance of the mark ;
(c) that the owner has failed to observe, or to
secure observance of, the conditions
governing the use of the mark ;
(d) that the owner is no longer competent to
certify the goods or services for which the
mark is registered ;
(e) that an amendment of the conditions have
been made so that the conditions –

(i) no longer comply with the
provisions of subsection (5) and any
other
condition
imposed
by
regulations ;
(ii) are contrary to public policy and
order or to the accepted principles of
morality.

(9) Apart from the grounds of nullity provided in
section 134 the registration of a certification mark
may be declared null and void if it was registered
contrary to the provisions of subsections (3), (4) and
(5).
(10)

(a) Registration of a certification mark shall be
in such part of the register as the DirectorGeneral may decide, and a copy of the
conditions, governing the use of the mark,
shall be appended to such registration.

(b) The publication of an application of a
certification mark shall be in accordance with
subsection (9) of section 111, which shall
include a summary of the conditions to be
appended to the registration.

(c) A certification mark registered under
subsection (4) shall be deemed for all
purposes be a registered mark.
(d) The conditions governing the use of a
certification mark shall be open for public
inspection in the same manner as the register.
(11)

(a) The registered owner of a certification
mark shall notify the Director-General in
prescribed manner of any changes or
amendments effected to the conditions
governing the use of the mark.
(b) Any notification of such changes and
amendments shall be recorded in the register
on the payment of prescribed fee. Any
change or amendment of conditions shall
come into force only if they have been so
recorded.

(c) The Director-General shall cause to be
published in the Gazette a summary of the
changes or amendments so recorded in the
resister.
PART VI

CHAPTER XXX
TRADE NAMES
Prohibited 143. A name or designation shall not be admissible as a
trade names. Prohibited trade name if, by reason of its nature or the uses to
which it names may be put, it is contrary to morality or public
order or is likely to offend the religious or racial susceptibilities of
any community or is likely to mislead trade circles or the public
as to the nature of the enterprise identified by that name.
protection of144.
trade name.

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law
providing for the registration of a trade name, such
name shall be protected, even prior to or without
registration, against any unlawful act committed by a
third party.

(2) Any subsequent use of a trade name by a third
party, whether as a trade name or as a trade mark,
service mark, collective mark or certification mark or
any such use of similar trade name, trade mark, service
mark or collective mark or certification mark likely to
mislead the public shall be deemed to be unlawful.
(3) Section 122 of this Act shall apply to trade names.
Assignment 145.
of
transmission
of trade
names.

(1) A trade name may be assigned or transmitted
together with the assignment or transmission of the
enterprise or part of the enterprise identified by that
name.
(2) The provisions of section 123 shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to trade names.
PART VII

Right to
protection.

CHAPTER XXXI
LAYOUT DESIGNS OF INTEGRATED CIRCUITS
146.

(1) The right to protection of a layout design shall
belong to the creator of layout design. Where several
persons have jointly created a layout design such
persons shall be co owners of the right to protection.

(2) The right to protection of a layout design made or
created in the performance of a contract of
employment or in the execution of a work shall, unless
the terms of such contract of employment or contract
for the execution of such work otherwise provides,
belong to the employer or the person who
commissioned the work, as the case may be.
Originality

147.

(1) The protection provided under this Act shall
Originality, apply to any layout design which is original.
For the purposes of this section a layout design is
original if –

(a) it has not been produced by the mere
reproduction of another layout design or of
any substantial part thereof; and
(b) it is the result of an intellectual effort of a
creator and is not common place among
creators of layout designs and manufacturers
of integrated circuits at the time of the
creation of such layout design.

(2) Where a layout design consists of a combination of
elements and interconnections that are common place
among creators of layout designs or manufacturers of
integrated circuits, such layout designs shall be
protected only if the combination, taken as a whole,
meets the conditions referred to in subsection (1).

Scope of
148.
protection.

(1) The protection afforded to a layout design under
this Part shall not be dependent on the integrated
circuit which incorporates such layout design being
incorporated in an article. Subject to the provisions of
subsection (2) the right holder of a layout design shall
have the exclusive right to do or authorize any person
to do any of the following acts :-

(i) to reproduce whether by incorporation in
an integrated circuit or otherwise, the
protected layout design in its entirety or any
part thereof, except the act of reproducing
any part that does not comply with the
requirement of originality referred to in
subsections (1) and (2) of section 147.
(ii) to import, offer for sale, sell or otherwise
distribute for commercial purposes, the
protected layout design or an integrated
circuit in which the protected layout design is
incorporated or an article incorporating such
an integrated circuit in so far as it does not
contain an unlawfully reproduced layout
design.

(2) The scope of the protection of a layout design
afforded by this Part, shall not extend to –

(i) the reproduction of the protected layout
design for the purpose of evaluation, analysis,
research or non profit teaching or education ;
(ii) the incorporation in an integrated circuit of
a layout design, created on the basis of such
analysis, evaluation or research referred to in
paragraph (i), if such layout design is itself
original within the meaning of subsections (1)
and (2) of section 147, or for the performance
of any of the acts referred to in subsection (1)
of this section in respect of such layout
design ;
(iii) the performance of any of the acts
referred to in paragraph (ii) of subsection (1),
where the act is performed in respect of a
protected layout design, or in respect of an
integrated circuit in which such layout design
is incorporated, and such layout design or
integrated circuit has been put on the market
by, or with the consent of, the right holder; or

(iv) the performance of any act referred to in
paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) in respect of
an integrated circuit incorporating an
unlawfully reproduced layout design or any
article incorporating such an integrated
circuit, where the person performing or
ordering such an act unknowingly performs or
orders such an act and has no reasonable
grounds of knowing at the time of acquiring
the integrated circuit or the article
incorporating such an integrated circuit, that
it incorporated an unlawfully reproduced
layout design :
Provided however, where the person
performing or ordering any act under this
paragraph, is notified that such layout design
is an unlawful reproduction, then such person
may, perform or order any act only with
respect to the stock in hand or ordered
before he was so notified and shall be liable
to pay to the right holder a sum equivalent to
a reasonable royalty such as would be
payable under a freely negotiated licence in
respect of such layout design; or
(v) protection under this Part shall not be
available for any layout design which has
been commercially exploited in or outside Sri
Lanka for more than two years prior to the
commencement of this Act.
Commencement149.
and duration of
protection.

(1) Protection of a layout design under this Act shall
commence-

(i) on the date of the first commercial
exploitation in or outside Sri Lanka of the
layout design by, or with the consent of the
right holder, provided an application for
protection is filed by the right holder with the
Director-General within the time specified in
subsection (2) of section 150 ; or
(ii) on the filing date accorded to the
application for the registration of the layout
design filed by the right holder, if the layout
design has not been previously exploited
commercially in or out side Sri Lanka.

(2) Protection of a layout design under this Part shall
terminate at the end of the tenth calendar year from
the date of commencement of such protection.
Requirements150.
of the
Application.,

(1) The application for the registration of a layout
design shall be in the prescribed form, and shall be
accompanied by the prescribed fee and shall be filed
in the Office. A separate application shall be filed in
respect of each different layout design.

(2) Any person may apply for registration of a layout
design if such layout design has not been
commercially exploited, or if exploited, in or outside
Sri Lanka the application for registration shall be made
before the expiry of a period of two years from the
date of such exploitation.
(3) The application shall-

(a) contain a request for the registration of
the layout design in the Register of Layout
Designs and a brief and precise description
thereof;
(b) specify the name, address, nationality of
the applicant, and if he is resident outside Sri
Lanka a postal address for service in Sri Lanka
;
(c) be accompanied by a copy of a drawing of
the layout design along with information
defining the electronic function which the
integrated circuit is intended to perform ;
however, the application may omit such parts
in the copy or drawing that relate to the
manner or manufacture of the integrated
circuit, provided that the parts submitted are
sufficient to allow the identification of the
layout design ;
(d) specify whether the layout design is
exploited in or outside Sri Lanka and the date
of its first commercial exploitation, if any ;

(e) provide particulars establishing the right
to protection under section 146 ;
(f) be accompanied by a declaration as to the
originality of the layout design ;

(g) be accompanied by a power of attorney
granted to the agent by the applicant, where
the application is made through an agent.
(4)

(a) Where the applicant fails to comply with
the requirements specified in subsection (3)
of this section the Director-General shall,
notify the applicant of the same and require
him to correct the defect made in the
application within a period of two months
from the date of such notification.

(b) Where the applicant complies with such
requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this
subsection, the Director- General shall accord
the date of filing as the date of receipt of the
application :
Provided however, such application should
contain written statement of the need for the
registration of the layout design, and
information whereby the identity of the
applicant can be established and shall be
accompanied by a copy of the drawings of
the layout design.

(c) Where the applicant fails to submit
drawings of a layout design with the original
application, but corrects the application for
the registration of the layout design within
the period specified in paragraph (a), the date
of receipt of the corrections shall be deemed
to be the date of filing of the application. The
Director-General shall by a written
communication confirm the filing date of the
application to the applicant.
(d) Where the applicant fails, after notification
by the Director-General, to correct the
application within the period specified in
paragraph (a), such application shall be
deemed not to have been filed.
Registration 151.
of layout
design in the
Register.

(1) The Director-General shall maintain a Register of
Layout Designs and he shall register or cause to be
registered of each protected layout design, in respect
of which applications for registration have been
accepted.

(2) Where any application conforms to the
requirements of section 150, the Director-General
shall register the layout design in the Register of
Layout Designs without examination of the originality
of the layout design, the applicant’s right to protection
or the correctness of the facts stated in the
application.
(3) The Register of Layout Designs shall contain the
number, title, filing date and where indicated in the
application under section 150 the date of first
commercial exploitation in or outside Sri Lanka of the
layout design as well as the name and address of the
right holder, details relating to assignment, transfer,
license contract and other prescribed particulars.
(4) Any person may refer the Register of Layout
Designs and obtain extracts therefrom, subject to the
payment of the prescribed fee.
(5) Every registration of a layout design shall be
published in the Gazette.
Right to
152.
transfer and
rectification
of the
Register.

(1) Where the essential elements of a layout design
has been taken from a layout design of another person
without his consent in writing, the second mentioned
person may, in writing together with all relevant
material necessary to substantiate his claim and the
prescribed fee, request the Director-General to
transfer the application to him. Where the application
has already been registered the second mentioned
person may, within one year from the date of
publication of such registration write to the DirectorGeneral together with all relevant material necessary
to substantiate his claim and the prescribed fee,
requesting the Director-General to transfer the
registration to him and to rectify the entry in the
register accordingly.
(2) The Director-General shall forthwith send a copy of
such request to the applicant or registered right
holder, as the case may be, requiring him to furnish
him with a counter claim within a period of two
months from the date of such notice in the prescribed
manner together with any material if any in his
possession to prove his ownership of the layout design
in question and the prescribed fee. The applicant or
the registered right holder may send the DirectorGeneral a counter claim.
(3) Where the registered right holder or the applicant
fails to provide any information as required under
subsection (2) of this section, within the period
specified, the Director- General shall allow the request
of the second mentioned person and rectify the entry
in the register.

(4) If the applicant or the right holder sends a counter
claim, as provided in subsection (2), the DirectorGeneral shall after hearing both parties and taking into
consideration the merits of the case, shall make his
determination and notify the parties of his
determination.
(5) Where after the filing of the application the person
to whom the right to protection belongs, gives his
consent to the filing of that application, such consent
shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be effective from
the date of filing of such application.
Changes in 153.
the
ownership
and
contractual
licences.

(1) A protected layout design may be assigned or
transmitted and such assignment or transmission shall
be in writing, signed by or on behalf of the contracting
parties.

(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf of
the assignor or transferor of the layout design the
Director- General shall on payment of the prescribed
fee, record in the register such particulars of change of
ownership and publish such change. Such change shall
have no effect against third parties until such
recording is made.
(3) The right holder of layout design may grant a
licence to another person or enterprise authorizing it
to do any or all of the acts referred to in subsection (1)
of section 148. Such license contract shall be in
writing and signed by or on behalf of the contracting
parties. Such license contract shall upon registration of
the layout design be submitted to the DirectorGeneral together with prescribed fee, who shall record
or cause to be recorded the existence of such license
contract in the register. A license contract shall have
no effect against third parties until it is so recorded.

Cancellation 154.
of a
Registration
of a layout
design.

(1) Any person interested in a layout design registered
under section 151, or an appropriate Authority
including the Director-General may file an application
in the Court, for the cancellation of such registration
on the following grounds : –
(a) that the layout design is not protected
under sections 147 ;
(b) that the right holder is not entitled to
protection under section 146; or

(c) that the layout design has been
commercially exploited in or out side Sri
Lanka, before the filing of the application for
registration of the layout design, and the
application was not filed within the time limit
specified in subsection (2) of section 148 and
subsection (2) of section 150.
(2) On the establishment of grounds for cancellation of
a part of a layout design, the registration applicable to
such corresponding part only of the layout design,
shall be cancelled.
(3) The Court may on an application made to it in
writing by an interested party or any appropriate
Authority including the Director-General, and where
the registered owner of the layout design and every
assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on record shall be
made party, make order for the cancellation or partial
cancellation of such registration.

(4) Any cancellation of a registration of layout design
or part thereof, shall have the effect of making null
and void the registration of a layout design or part
thereof as the case may be, and as such it shall be
effective from the date of commencement of the
protection of such layout design.

(5) The Court shall notify the Director-General of its
decision and the Director-General shall record such
decision and publish a notice to that effect, in the
Gazette.
Representation155. Where the ordinary residence, or principal, of the an Agent.
by an Agent. applicant place of business, of the applicant is outside Sri Lanka,
he shall be represented by an agent registered under section 175
of the Act.
Infringement.156.

(1) Infringement shall consist of the performance of
any act in contravention of the provisions of section
148.

(2) The Court may grant an injunction, award damages
or grant any other proper remedy –

(a) to a right holder to prevent an
infringement or imminent infringement if he
makes an application having reason to believe
that a layout design has been made infringing
the rights protected under section 148 of the
Act; or
(b) to a licencee, where the licencee makes an
application to court, in the event of the right
holder failing or neglecting to make an
application to Court on his being made aware
of such infringement by the licencee.

(3) The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act shall
apply in respect of an infringement and the remedies
available to a right holder or a licencee.
(4) Any action under subsection (2) may be initiated
only after an application for registration of the layout
design being filed with the Director-General.
Offences.

157. Any person who, knowingly or intentionally contravenes the

provisions of section 148, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall
on conviction after trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment and in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction such fine or term of imprisonment or both
such fine and imprisonment may be doubled. The Court may in
addition order the seizure, forfeiture and destruction of the
layout design, integrated circuits, articles or any material or
implement, which have been used for or in the commission of the
offence.

Application 158. The provisions of sections 125A and 125B of the Customs
of certain Ordinance and sections 163 to 174, 177, 180, 187, of the Act.
provisions of 191,195 to 204 of the Act shall apply to and in relation to the
the Act.
layout designs of integrated circuits.

Interpretation.159. In this Part unless the context otherwise requires-

“integrated circuit” means a product, in its final form
or an intermediate form, in which the elements, at
least one of which is an active element, and some or all
of the interconnections are integrally formed in or on a
piece of material and which is intended to perform an
electronic function ;

“layout design” is synonymous with “topography” and
means the three dimensional disposition, however
expressed, of the elements, at least one of which is an
active element, and of some or all of the
interconnections of an integrated circuit, or such a
three-dimensional disposition prepared for an
integrated circuit intended for manufacture ;
“right holder” means the natural person who, or the
legal entity which, is to be regarded as the beneficiary
of the protection referred to in section 146.
PART VIII

Unfair
competition
and
undisclosed
information
competition.

CHAPTER XXXII
UNFAIR COMPETITION AND UNDISCLOSED
INFORMATION
160.
(1)

(a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged
in the course of industrial or commercial
activities, that is information contrary to
honest practices shall constitute an act of
unfair competition.

(b) The provisions of this section shall apply
independently of, and in addition to, other
provisions of the Act protecting inventions,
industrial designs, marks, trade names,
literary, scientific and artistic works and other
intellectual property.
(2)

(a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged
in, in the course of industrial or commercial
activities, that causes, or is likely to cause,
confusion with respect to another’s enterprise
or its activities, in particular, the products or
services offered by such enterprise, shall
constitute an act of unfair competition.
(b) Confusion may, in particular, be caused
with respect to(i) a mark, whether registered or not;
(ii) a trade name ;

(iii) a business identifier other than a
mark or trade name ;
(iv) the appearance of a product;

(v) the presentation of products or
services ;
(vi) celebrity or a well known fictional
character.
(3)

(a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged
in, in the course of industrial or commercial
activities, that damages, or is likely to
damage, the goodwill or reputation of
another’s enterprise shall constitute an act of
unfair competition, whether or not such act or
practice actually causes confusion.
(b) Damaging another’s goodwill or reputation
may, in particular, result from the dilution of
the goodwill or reputation attached to
(i) a mark, whether registered or not;
(ii) a trade name ;

(iii) a business identifier other than a
mark or a trade name ;
(iv) the appearance of product ;

(v) the presentation of products or
services;
(vi) celebrity or a well-known fictional
character.

(c) For the purposes of these provisions,
“dilution of goodwill or reputation” means the
lessening of the distinctive character or
advertising value of a mark, trade name or
other business identifier, the appearance of a
product or the presentations of products or
services or of a celebrity or well known
fictional character.
(4)

(a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged
in, in the course of any industrial or
commercial activity, that misleads, or is likely
to mislead, the public with respect to an
enterprise or its activities, in particular, the
products or services offered by such
enterprise, shall constitute an act of unfair
competition.
(b) Misleading may arise out of advertising or
promotion and may, in particular occur with
respect to –
(i) the manufacturing process of a
product;

(ii) the suitability of a product or
service for a particular purpose ;
(iii) the quality or quantity or other
characteristics of products or services
;

(iv) the geographical indication of
products or services ;
(v) the conditions on which products
or services are offered or provided ;

(vi) the price of products or services or
the manner in which it is calculated.
(5)

(a) any false or unjustifiable allegation, in the
course of industrial or commercial activities,
that discredits, or is likely to discredit, an
enterprise of another person or the activities
of such enterprise, in particular, the products
or services offered by such enterprise, shall
constitute an act of unfair competition.

(b) Discrediting may arise out of advertising
or promotion and may, in particular, occur
with respect to –
(i) the manufacturing process of a
product ;

(ii) the suitability of a product or
service for a particular purpose ;
(iii) the quality or quantity or other
characteristics of products or services
;

(iv) the conditions on which products
or services are offered or provided ;

(v) the price of products or services or
the manner in which it is calculated.
(6)

(a) Any act or practice, in the course of
industrial or commercial activities, that results
in the disclosure, acquisition or use by others,
of undisclosed information without the
consent of the person lawfully in control of
that information (in this section referred to as
“the rightful holder”) and in a manner
contrary to honest commercial practices shall
constitute an act of unfair competition.
(b) Disclosure, acquisition or use of
undisclosed information by others without the
consent of the rightful holder may, in
particular, result from –
(i) industrial or commercial espionage ;
(ii) breach of contract ;

(iii) breach of confidence ;

(iv) inducement to commit any of the
acts referred to in sub-paragraphs (i)
to (iii) ;
(v) acquisition of undisclosed
information by a third party who knew
or was grossly negligent in failing to
know, that an act referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iv) was involved in
the acquisition.

(c) For the purposes of this Act, information
shall be considered “undisclosed information”
if(i) it is not, as a body or in the precise

configuration and assembly of its
components, generally known among,
or readily accessible to, persons within
the circles that normally deal with the
kind of information in question ;
(ii) it has actual or potential
commercial value because it is secret;
and

(iii) it has been subject to reasonable
steps under the circumstances by the
rightful holder to keep it secret.
(d) Any act or practice, in the course of
industrial or commercial activities, shall be
considered an act of unfair competition if it
consists of results in –

(i) an unfair commercial use of secret
test or other data, the origination of
which involves considerable effort and
which have been submitted to
appropriate authority for the purposes
of obtaining approval of the marketing
of pharmaceutical or agricultural or
chemical products which utilize new
chemical entities ; or
(ii) the disclosure of such data, except
where necessary to protect the public,
or unless steps have been taken to
ensure that the data is protected
against unfair commercial use.

(e) The undisclosed information for the
purpose of this Act shall include(i) technical information related to the
manufacture of goods or the provision
of services ; or
(ii) business information which
includes the internal information
which an enterprise has developed so
as to be used within the enterprise.

In this section the word “enterprise”
has the same meaning as in section
101 of the Act.
(7) Any person or enterprise or association of
producers, manufacturers or traders aggrieved by any
act or practice referred to in this Part, may institute
proceedings in Court to prohibit the continuance of
such act or practice and obtain damages for losses
suffered as a result of such act or practice. The
provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act relating to
infringement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to such
proceeding
(8)

(a) Any person, who willfully and without
lawful authority, discloses any undisclosed
information shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall on conviction after
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(b) The provisions of Chapter XXXVIII of the
Act shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the
offence specified under this subsection.

(9) The rights conferred by the provisions of
subsection (6) shall be in addition to, and not in
derogation of, any common law rights.
PART IX

Protection 161.
of
geographical
indications.

CHAPTER XXXIII
GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
(1) Any interested party shall be entitled to prevent –

(i) the use of any means in the designation or
presentation of goods that indicates or
suggests that the goods including an
agricultural product, food, wine or spirit in
question originates in a geographical area
other than the true place of origin in a
manner which misleads the public as to the
geographical origin of goods ; or
(ii) any use of a geographical indication which
constitutes an act of unfair competition within
the meaning of section 160 ;

(iii) the use of a geographical indication
identifying goods including an agricultural
product, food, wine or sprit not originating in
the place indicated by the geographical
indication in question or identifying goods not
originating in the place indicated by the
geographical indication in question, even
where the true origin of the goods is
indicated or the geographical indication is
used in translation or accompanied by
expression such as kind, type, style or
imitation or the like.
(2) The protection accorded to geographical
indications under sections 103, 160 and 161 shall be
applicable against a geographical indication which,
although literally true as to the territory, region or
locality in which the goods originate, falsely represents
to the public that the goods originate in another
territory.
(3) In the case of homonymous geographical
indications for goods including an agricultural product,
food, wine or spirit, protection shall be accorded to
each indication, subject to the provisions of subsection
(2) of this section. The Minister, in case of permitted
concurrent use of such indications, shall determine by
prescribed practical conditions under which the
homonymous indications in question will be
differentiated from each other, taking into
consideration the need to ensure equitable treatment
of the producers concerned and the protection of
consumers from false or deceptive indications.
(4) The Court shall have power and jurisdiction to
grant an injunction and any other relief deemed
appropriate to prevent any such use as is referred to in
this section. The provisions of Chapter XXXV of the
Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such
proceedings.
(5) For the purposes of this section “geographical
indications” shall have the same meaning as in section
101.
PART X

CHAPTER XXXIV
CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF ADVISORY
COMMISSION
Appointed & 162.
c of Advisory
(1) The Minister may constitute an Advisory
Commission.
Commission (hereinafter referred to as the
“Commission”) for the purpose of advising him on any
matter referred to him in relation to the law relating to
Copyright, Industrial Designs, Marks, Patents and
Unfair Competition and any other area or subject of
Intellectual Property.
(2) The Commission constituted under subsection (1)
shall consist of(a) not less than five and not more than ten
members appointed by the Minister from
among persons who have shown capacity in
law or commerce or related fields,
(hereinafter referred to as an “appointed
member”) ; and

(b) the Director-General who shall be an exofficio member and who shall function as the
Secretary to the Commission ;
(3)

(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4),
the term of office of an appointed member of
the Commission shall be three years :
Provided that a member appointed in place of
a member who resigns or is removed or
otherwise vacates office, shall hold office for
the unexpired portion of the part of term of
office of the member whom he succeeds ;
(b) An appointed member of the Commission
who vacates office by effluxion of time shall
be eligible for re -appointment.

(4)

(a) An appointed member of the Commission
may resign from office by letter to that effect
addressed to the Minister and such
resignation shall take effect on such
resignation being accepted by the Minister in
writting .
(b) The Minister may at any time remove an
appointed member from office, assigning any
reason therefor.

(c) Where an appointed member is
temporarily unable to discharge the duties of
his office on account of illness, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister
may appoint another person to act as a
member in his place.
(5)

(a) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman of
the Commission (in this Part referred to as the
“Chairman”) from among the appointed
members of the Commission ;

(b) If the Chairman is by reason of illness,
other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka,
temporarily unable to perform the duties of
his office, the Minister may appoint another
appointed member to act in his place.
(c) The Minister may at any time remove the
Chairman from office, assigning any reason
therefor ;

(d) The Chairman may resign from the office
of Chairman by a letter to that effect
addressed to the Minister in writing and such
resignation shall take effect on such
resignation being accepted by the Minister.
(e) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c)
and (d), the term of office of the Chairman
shall be his period of membership of the
Commission.
(6) There may be appointed such officers and servants
as may be necessary to assist the Commission in
performing its duties under this Part.

(7) The members of the Commission may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund as may be determined
by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance.
(8) It shall be the duty of the Commission –

(a) to inquire into and report to the Minister,
on any matter or question relating to the law
of Copyright, Industrial Designs, Trade Marks,
Patents and Unfair Competition or any other
matter relating to Intellectual Property as may
be referred to it by the Minister from time to
time ;

(b) to review the law relating to, and
applicable to, Copyright, Industrial Designs,
Trade Marks, Patents and Unfair Competition
or any other matter relating to intellectual
property from time to time and to make
proposals to the Minister for the alteration,
modification or addition to such law ;
(c) in making the report or proposals referred
to in paragraph (a) or (b), to consult and take
into consideration where the Commission
deems it necessary to do so, the views of
trade chambers, professional organizations,
related institutions, government departments
and the general public.
(9) The Minister may give special or general directions
in writing to the Commission, as to the performance of
its duties and the exercise of the powers, and the
Commission shall give effect to such directions.
PART XI

Correction 163.
and
rectification
of register.

CHAPTER XXXV
APPLICATIONS TO AND PROCEEDINGS
BEFORE, THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND
COURT
(1) The Director-General may, on application made in
the prescribed manner by or on behalf of the
registered owner of an industrial design, patent, trade
mark or any other registration provided for under the
Act, correct any error or make any change(a) in the name, address or description of the
registered owner of any Industrial Design,
Patent or Mark or any other registration
provided for under the Act ;

(b) concerning any other particulars relating
to the registration of an Industrial Design,
Patent or Mark or any other registration as
may be prescribed.
(2) Subject and without prejudice to other provisions
of the Act-

(a) the Court may on the application of any
person aggrieved by the non-insertion in or
omission from any register, of any entry, or by
any entry made in any register without
sufficient cause, or by any entry wrongly
remaining on any register, or by any error or
defect in any entry in any register, make such
order for making, expunging, or varying such
entry, as it may think fit ;

(b) the Court may in any proceeding under
this section decide any question that may be
necessary or expedient to decide in
connection with the rectification of any
register ;
(c) in case of fraud in the registration,
assignment or transmission of any registered
Industrial Design, Patent or Mark, or any
other registration provided for under the Act,
the Director-General himself may apply to the
Court under the provisions of this section.
(3) In any proceedings under this Act in which the
relief sought includes correction, alteration or
rectification of any register, the Director-General shall
have the right to appear and be heard, and shall
appear if so directed by the Court. Unless otherwise
directed by the Court, the Director-General in lieu of
appearing and being heard may submit to the Court a
statement in writing signed by him, giving particulars
of the proceedings before him in relation to the matter
in issue or of the grounds of any decision given by him
affecting the same or of the practice of the office in
like cases, or of such other matters relevant to the
issue, and within his knowledge as such DirectorGeneral shall think fit, and such statement shall be
deemed to form part of the evidence in the
proceedings.

(4) The Court, in dealing with any question of the
correction, alteration or rectification of any register
shall have power to review any decision of the
Director-General relating to the entry in question or
the correction, alteration or rectification sought to be
made.
Power to
164.
make copies
of damaged
volumes of
any register,
to prepare
and insert
reconstructed
folios.

(1) Where the Director-General is satisfied that any
volume of any register kept under this Act has been so
damaged as to render that volume incapable of being
mended, he may cause a copy thereof to be made and
authenticated in such manner as he may direct.

(2) Any copy made and authenticated under the
provisions of subsection (1) shall replace the volume of
which it is a copy, and shall for all purposes be
deemed to have the same legal force and effect as the
volume which such copy replaces.
(3) The Director-General shall cause every damaged
volume of which a copy has been made under the
provisions of subsection (1) to be preserved as long as
it is reasonably practicable for any reference which
may be necessary.
(4) Where the Director-General, after due
investigation, is satisfied that any folio of any volume
of any register has been lost and cannot be recovered
or that any such folio has been permanently mutilated
or so obliterated or damaged as to render the entries
or any material part of the entries therein illegible, he
may cause a reconstructed folio to be prepared.
(5) No folio shall be reconstructed as provided in
subsection (4) except in accordance with the
prescribed procedure, providing-

(a) for evidence to be admitted and used by
the Director-General in ascertaining the
particulars originally contained in the lost or
mutilated or damaged folio ;
(b) for the giving of notice by the DirectorGeneral of the preparation of the
reconstructed folio ;
(c) for the lodging of objections by any person
affected by any of the particulars contained in
the folio to be reconstructed ; and

(d) for the holding of an inquiry by the
Director-General into any such objections.

(6) Where any folio has been reconstructed by the
Director-General in accordance with the preceding
provisions of this section, the Director-General shall
authenticate the reconstructed folio in the prescribed
manner and shall thereafter cause the reconstructed
folio to be inserted in the appropriate volume of the
register in the place formerly occupied by the lost folio
or in place of the mutilated or damaged folio, or in a
copy of a volume prepared under the provisions of this
section, as the case may be, and the reconstructed
folio, when so authenticated and inserted, shall for all
purposes be deemed to have the same legal force and
effect as the folio which such reconstructed folio
replaces.

(7) The Director-General may, after such inquiry as he
may deem necessary, correct any clerical error or
omission which may be discovered in any entry in any
register or in any certificate kept or issued under the
provisions of this Act and for that purpose may recall
any such certificate and amend the same or issue a
fresh certificate in its place.

Certificate of165. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the
DirectorDirector-General as to any entry, matter, or thing which he is
General to authorized by this Act or regulations made thereunder to make
be evidence. or do, shall be, prima facie, evidence of the entry having been
made, and of the contents thereof, and of the matter or thing
having been done or not done.
Certified
166. Printed, mechanically produced, typed or written copies or
copies to be extracts, certified by the Director-General, of or from any
evidence. document, register, or other book filed or kept under this Act in
the office shall be admitted in evidence in any Court of Sri Lanka,
without further proof or production of the originals.
Mode of
giving
evidence.

167.

(1) In any proceeding under this Act before the Court,
the evidence shall be given by affidavit in the absence
of directions to the contrary. However in any case in
which the Court shall think it right so to do, the Court
may take evidence, viva voce, in lieu of or in addition
to evidence by affidavit.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply in respect of the giving of evidence at
an inquiry before the Director-General.

(3) In case any part of the evidence is taken viva voce,
the Director-General may exercise the powers
conferred on a Commission appointed under the
provisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act for
compelling the attendance of witnesses and the
production of documents and for administering oaths
to all persons who shall be examined before him.

Exercise of 168. Where any discretionary or other power is given to the
discretionary Director-General by this Act or any regulation made thereunder,
power by he shall not exercise that power adversely in respect of the
Directorapplicant for registration or the registered owner of an Industrial
General.
Design, Patent or Mark or any other matter provided under this
Act without (if duly required so to do within the prescribed time)
giving such applicant or registered owner an opportunity of
being heard.
Director169. The Director-General may, in any case of doubt or difficulty
General may arising in the administration of any of the provisions of this Act,
seek
seek the assistance of the Attorney-General.
assistance of
AttorneyGeneral.
Infringement 170.
and the
(1) Where a person to whom any recognised rights
remedies.
granted under this Act, proves to the satisfaction of
the Court that any person is threatening to infringe or
has infringed his rights or is performing acts which
makes it likely to infringe a right under this Act, will
occur, the Court may grant an injunction restraining
any such person from commencing or continuing such
infringement or performing such acts and may order
damages and such other relief as the Court, may deem
just and equitable. The injunction may be granted
along with an award of damages and shall not be
denied only for the reason that the applicant is entitled
to damages.
(2) The defendant may in the proceedings referred to
in subsection (1) request the Court to declare the
registration of an Industrial Design, Patent, Mark or
any other registration provided for under the Act, as
the case may be, or any part of it, null and void, in
which event the provisions of the section relating to
the nullity of such registration shall apply as
appropriate.
(3)

(a) The court shall have the power to order-

(i) the infringer to pay the right holder
such damages as are adequate to
compensate him for the loss suffered
by him, by reason of such
infringement, in addition to the
recovery of any profits ;
(ii) the infringing goods to be disposed
of outside the channels of commerce
or to be destroyed without the
payment of any compensation ; and

(iii) subject to the protection of
confidential information, the tendering
of any evidence by the opposing party
which evidence is relevant to the
substantiation of the claim and is in
the control of the opposing party, in
cases where a party has presented
reasonably available evidence in
support of the claim and has specified
that evidence relevant to the
substantiation of such claim lies in the
control of the opposing party.
(b) The court may make any order specified in
subsection (1) in respect of materials and
implements used in the creation of the
infringing goods.
(4) In making such orders the need for maintaining a
balance between the seriousness of the infringement
and the remedies ordered, as well as the interests of
third parties shall be taken into consideration. In
regard to counterfeit trade mark goods, the simple
removal of the trade mark unlawfully affixed shall not
other than in exceptional cases, be sufficient, to
permit the release of the goods into the channels of
commerce.
(5) The Court may, other than in an instance where it
would not be in proportion to the seriousness of the
infringement, order the infringer to inform the right
holder of the identity of the persons involved in the
production and distribution of the infringing goods or
services and of channels of distribution used by them.

(6) The Court shall have power to order interim
measures relating to protection, ex-parte, where
appropriate, in particular where any delay is likely to
cause irreparable harm to the right holder or where
there is a demonstrable risk of evidence being
destroyed.
(7) Where interim measures have been ordered exparte the parties affected shall be given notice and
shall on receipt of such notice be entitled to be heard
as to whether the interim measures ordered should be
modified or revoked.

(8) Where the interim measures are modified or
revoked or it is subsequently found that there has
been no infringement of a protected right, the Court
shall have the power to order the applicant, upon the
request of the defendant to pay appropriate
compensation for any injury caused.
(9) The Court may require the applicant to provide
security or other equivalent assurance sufficient to
protect the defendant and to prevent abuse of any
interim measures referred to in the preceding
provisions of this section.

(10) Any owner of the rights protected under this Act
may, notwithstanding any provision in the Act relating
to the award of damages, elect at any time before final
judgment to recover, instead of proved actual
damages, an award of statutory damages for any
infringement involved in the action of a sum not less
than rupees fifty thousand and not more than rupees
one million as the court may consider appropriate and
just.

(11) No suit or prosecution shall lie against any official
for any act which is done in good faith and in
pursuance of any provisions of this Act.

Infringement 171. In the absence of any provision to the contrary in a licence
proceedings contract relating to an Industrial Design, Patent or Mark or any
by or at the other matter provided for by the Act, the licensee may –
request of
(a) in respect of the threatened infringement,
licensee.
infringement or acts referred to in section 170 request
the registered owner of the Industrial Design, Patent
or Mark or any other matter provided for by the Act, to
apply for an injunction :

Provided that the licensee shall indicate the
threatened infringement, infringement or acts being
performed in relation to such infringement and specify
the relief sought under the Act ; and
(b) if the owner of the said Industrial Design, Patent or
Mark or any other matter provided for by this Act
refuses or fails to apply for an injunction within three

months from the receipt of the said request, apply for
an injunction in his own name, with notice to the
registered owner who may join in the proceedings :

Provided that the Court may, on the application of the
licensee, prior to the expiry of the period of three
months, specified in paragraph (b) of this section grant
an injunction if he proves that immediate action is
necessary to avoid substantial damage.
Declaration 172.
of noninfringement.

(1) The Court may on the application of any person
showing a legitimate interest to which the registered
owner , of the Industrial Design, Patent or Mark, or any
other matter provided for under the Act as the case
may be, shall be made party, declare that the
threatened performance or performance of a specific
act does not constitute a threatened infringement or
infringement of the said Industrial Design, Patent or
Mark or any other matter provided for under the Act.

(2) The registered owner of the industrial design,
patent or Mark or any other register provided for
under the Act, as the case may be, shall give notice of
the said application to any assignee or licensee, who
shall be entitled to join in the proceedings in the
absence of any provision to the contrary in any
agreement with the registered owner.

(3) The proceedings for a declaration of noninfringement may be instituted concurrently with
proceedings to declare the registration of an Industrial
Design, Patent or Mark or any other matter provided
for by the Act be null and void :
Provided that the matters in issue in the proceedings
for a declaration of non-infringement are not already
the subject of infringement proceedings.
(4) The provisions of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978,
and the Civil Procedure Code shall apply to every
application for an injunction made to the Court under
this Act.
Appeals.

173.

(1) Any person aggrieved by any decision made by the
Director-General under any provision of the Act may
appeal therefrom to the Court within a period of six
months from the date of such decision.

(2) Such person may prefer an appeal to the Court by
way of a petition of appeal with a certified copy of the
decision appealed form, accompanied by copies of all
relevant documents and affidavits from the file of the
Intellectual Property Office. A copy of the petition of
appeal and the accompanying documents and the
affidavits shall be served on the Director-General and
other respondents named in the petition of appeal.
Proof of such service shall be furnished with the
petition of appeal to the Court. The respondents may
file a statement of objections.

(3) Court may call for the original file from the
Director- General and may receive and admit new
evidence by way of affidavit and documents,
additional to, or supplementary of, the evidence
already given before the Director-General in respect of
the matter issue as the Court may require.
(4) On any such appeal, the Court may affirm, reverse
or vary the decision of the Director-General or may
issue such directions to the Director-General, or order
a further hearing by the Director-General, as the court
may require.

(5) Any person who is dissatisfied with any Order made
by the Court under subsection (4) to which such
person is a party may prefer an appeal to the Supreme
Court against such Order for the correction of any
error in fact or in law, with the leave of the Supreme
Court first had and obtained.
(6) Every appeal to the Supreme Court under
subsection (5) shall be made as nearly as may be in
accordance with the procedure prescribed by the rules
of the Supreme Court with respect to special leave to
appeal to the Supreme Court.
Costs of
174.
preceding
before
DirectorGeneral and
Court.

(1) In all proceedings before the Director-General
under this Act, the Director-General shall have power
to award any party such costs as he may consider
reasonable, and to direct to whom and to what parties
they are to be paid, and such order may be filed in
Court, and thereupon such order may be enforced as if
it were an order of the Court.

(2) In any proceedings before a Court under this Act,
the Director-General shall not be ordered to pay costs.
The Court may however in its description Order the
payment of costs to the Director-General.

Registered 175.
agents.

CHAPTER XXXVI
REGISTERED AGENTS
(1) An Agent referred to in this Act means an agent
registered under the provisions of the Act or in
accordance with any regulation made thereunder.

(2) Any person registered as an agent under this Act
shall have the authority and be competent to act as an
agent under this Act.
(3) A person may be admitted and registered as an
agent if he(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka and is ordinarily
resident in Sri Lanka ; and
(b)

(i) is an Attorney-At-Law of the
Supreme Court of Sri Lanka ; or

(ii) is a person possessing the
qualifications prescribed for an agent ;
and
(c) pays the prescribed fee.
(4) A corporate body or a firm may act as an agent if
the majority of the Directors of such corporate body or
if the majority of the partners of the firm, as the case
may be, are registered agents.

(5) The registration of an agent under this Act shall be
valid for a period of three years and shall be
renewable, subject to the payment of a prescribed fee,
for a consecutive period of three years provided,
however, that a period of grace of six months shall be
allowed for renewal upon payment of such surcharge
as may be prescribed.
(6) Notwithstanding anything in the provisions of
subsection (2), any duly appointed agent, irrespective
of not being registered under this Chapter, may
represent his clients, for a period of two years from the
date on which the provisions of this Chapter comes
into operation.

(7) The power of attorney referred to in this Act means
a power of attorney duly executed or a letter of
authorisation duly signed by the principal.

Fund.

176.

CHAPTER XXXVII
FUND
(1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be
established a Fund which shall be maintained in such
manner as the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Trade in consultation with
the Director-General may direct.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund two-thirds of
every fee or charge, levied or recoverable under this
Act or any regulation made thereunder.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund referred to in
subsection (1) all sums of money required to defray
any expenditure incurred by the Director-General in
the exercise, discharge and performance of his
powers, functions and duties under this Act and all
such sums of money as are required to be paid out of
such Fund by or under this Act or any regulation made
thereunder.
(4) The balance one-third of the money paid into the
Fund under subsection (2), of each and every such fee
or charge levied or recoverable under this Act or any
regulation made thereunder shall be credited to the
Consolidated Fund.

(5) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Trade shall as soon as
possible after the end of each calendar year prepare a
report on the administration of the Fund and shall
cause to be maintained a full and appropriate account
of the Fund in respect of each calendar year.
(6) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Fund in terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(7) The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendar
year.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
Falsification 177. Any person who makes or causes to be made a false entry in
of entries in any of the registers kept under this Act, or a writing falsely
any register. purporting to be a copy of an entry in any such register, or
produces, or tenders, or causes to be produced or tendered in
evidence any such writing, knowing the entry or writing to be
false shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees
five hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding seven years.
Infringement 178.
of
Copyright.

(1) Any person who wilfully infringes any of the rights
protected under Part II of this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction after trial
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding rupees five
hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such
imprisonment, and in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction such fine or term of
imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment
may be doubled.

(2) Any person knowing or having reason to believe
that copies have been made in infringement of the
rights protected under Part II of the Act, sells, displays
for sale, or has in his possession for sale or rental or
for any other purpose of trade any such copies, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction by a Magistrate for a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine
and such imprisonment, and in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to double the amount of a
such fine or term of imprisonment or both.

(3) Any person knowingly or having reasons to believe
that he is in possession or has access to a computer
program infringing the rights of another person, and
wilfully makes use of such program for commercial
gain, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction by a Magistrate for a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonment for
a period of six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(4) The Magistrate may, whether the alleged offender
is convicted or not, order that all copies of the work
and all implements used for the infringement, or all
plates in the possession of the alleged offender, which
appear to him to be infringing copies, or plates or
implements used for the purpose of making infringing
copies, shall be destroyed or delivered up to the owner
of the right, or otherwise dealt with in such manner as
the Magistrate may think fit.

Infringement 179. Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of any
of Industrial registered owner, assignee or licensee of an Industrial Design
Designs.
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
after trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such
imprisonment, and in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction to double the amount of such fine or term of
imprisonment or both.

False
180.
representations
regarding
industrial
Designs.

(1) Any person who, for industrial or commercial
purposes, makes a representation –

(a) with respect to an Industrial Design not
being a registered Industrial Design to the
effect that it is a registered Industrial Design ;

(b) to the effect that a registered Industrial
Design is registered in respect of any product,
regarding which registration has not been
carried out ;

(c) to the effect that the registration of an
Industrial Design gives an exclusive right to
the use thereof in any circumstances in which,
having regard to limitations recorded in the
register, the registration does not give that
right,

shall be guilty of an offence, and shall on conviction
after trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or
to both such fine and such imprisonment.

(2) A person shall be deemed to represent that an
Industrial Design is registered if he uses in connection
with the Industrial Design the word “registered”, or any
word or words expressing or implying that registration
has been obtained for the Industrial Design.
Infringement 181. Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of any
of Patents. registered owner, assignee or licensee of a patent shall be guilty
of an offence, and shall be liable on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and such imprisonment, and in the case of a
second or subsequent conviction to double the amount of such
fine or term of imprisonment or both.

False
182.
representations
regarding
Patents.

(1) Any person who, for industrial or commercial
purposes, makes a representation –

(a) with respect to a patent not being a
registered patent to the effect that it is a
registered Patent ;
(b) to the effect that a registered Patent is
registered in respect of any product or
process regarding which registration has not
been carried out ; or

(c) to the effect that the registration of a
Patent gives an exclusive right to the use
thereof in any circumstances in which, having
regard to limitations recorded in the register,
the registration does not give that right,
shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable on
conviction after trial before a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or
to both such fine and such imprisonment.
(2) A person shall be deemed to represent a Patent as
registered if he uses in connection with the Patent the
word “registered”, or any word or words expressing or
implying that registration has been obtained for the
Patent.
Unlawful
183. Any person who being or having been employed in or at the
disclosure of office, communicates any information relating to Patents or
information matters connected therewith obtained by him during the course
relating to or his employment in or at the office to any person not entitled
Patents.
or authorized to receive such information, or discloses such
information to the public or makes any other unlawful use of
such information shall be guilty of an offence, and shall on
conviction after trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding twelve months or to both such fine and
such imprisonment.

Infringement 184. Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of any
of Marks. registered owner, assignee or licensee of a Mark, shall be guilty
of an offence and shall on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and such imprisonment and in the
case of a second or subsequent conviction to double the amount
of such fine or term of imprisonment or both such fine and
imprisonment.

False
185.
representations
regarding
marks.

(1) Any person who, for industrial or commercial
purposes, makes a representation –

(a) with respect to a Mark not being a
registered Mark to the effect that it is a
registered Mark ;
(b) to the effect that a registered mark is
registered in respect of any goods or services
regarding which registration has not been
carried out ; or
(c) to the effect that the registration of a mark
gives an exclusive right to the use thereof in
any circumstances, in which having regard to
limitations recorded in the register, the
registration does not give that right,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction
after trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or
to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) A person shall be deemed to represent a Mark as
registered if he uses in connection with the Mark the
word “registered”, or any word or sign expressing or
implying that registration has been obtained for the
mark.
Other
186.
offences as
to marks and
trade
descriptions.

(1) Any person Who-

(a) forges any Mark ; or

(b) falsely applies to goods any Mark or Marks
so nearly resembling a registered Mark as to
be likely to mislead ; or
(c) makes any die, seal block, machine, or
other instrument for the purpose of forging,
or to be used for forging, a Mark ; or

(d) applies any false trade description to
goods ; or

(e) disposes of, or has in his possession, any
die, seal block, machine, or other instrument
for the purpose of forging a Mark ; or

(f) causes any of the things referred to in this
subsection to be done,
shall, subject to the provisions of this Part, and unless
he proves that he acted without intent to defraud, be
guilty of an offence.

(2) Any person who sells or exposes for sale, or has in
his possession for sale, or any purpose of trade or
manufacture, any goods or things to which any forged
Mark or false trade description is applied, or to which
any Mark so nearly resembling a registered Mark so as
to be likely to mislead, is falsely applied, as the case
may be, shall, unless he proves-

(a) that having taken all reasonable
precautions against committing an offence he
had at the time of the commission of the
alleged offence no reason to suspect the
genuineness of the Mark, or trade description
; and

(b) that on demand made by or on behalf of
the prosecutor he gave all the information in
his power with respect to the persons from
whom he obtained such goods or things ; or
(c) that otherwise he had acted innocently,
be guilty of an offence.

(3) Any person who imports any piece-goods ordinarily
sold by length or by the piece, manufactured outside
Sri Lanka, or who sells or exposes for, or has in his
possession for sale or any purpose of trade, any piecegoods ordinarily sold by length or by piece, whether
manufactured within or outside the territory of Sri
Lanka, which do not have conspicuously stamped in
English numerals on each piece, the length thereof in
standard metres, or in standard metres and a fraction
of such a metre, according to the real length of the
piece, shall be guilty of an offence :

Provided that nothing contained in this subsection
shall apply to any piece-goods manufactured within
the limits of Sri Lanka by hand labour only.

(4) Any person found guilty of an offence under this
section shall on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees
five hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years or to both such fine and such
imprisonment, and in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction such fine or term of
imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment
may be doubled.

(5) The Magistrate may, whether the alleged offender
is convicted or not, order that every chattel, article,
instrument or thing by means of or in relation to which
the offence has or might have been committed shall
be destroyed or declared forfeit to the State or
otherwise dealt with as he may think fit.
Offences by 187. Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
bodies
body corporate, every person who at the time of the commission
corporate. of the offence was a Director- General, Manager, Secretary or
other similar officer of that body shall be deemed to be guilty of
such offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed
without his consent or connivance and that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

Interpretation.188. For the purposes of this Part, the definitions contained in
section 101 shall apply, unless the context otherwise requires.
False name 189.
or initials.

(1) The provisions of this Part respecting the
application of a false trade description to goods, or
respecting goods to which a false trade description is
applied, shall extend to the application to goods –

(a) of any such figures, words, marks or
arrangement or combination thereof, whether
including a registered Mark or not, as are
likely to lead persons to believe that the
goods are the manufacture or merchandise of
some person other than the person whose
manufacture or merchandise they really are ;
(b) of any false name or initials of a person
and to goods with the false name or initials of
a person applied, in like manner as if such
name or initials were a trade description.

(2) For the purposes of this Part the expression “false
name or initials” means, as applied to any goods, any
name or initials of a person which –
(i) are not a Mark, or part of a Mark ; and

(ii) are identical with, or are a colourable
imitation of, the name or initials of a person
carrying on business in connection with
goods of the same description, and not
having been authorized the use of such name
or initials ; and
(iii) are either those of a fictitious person or of
some person not, bona fide, carrying on
business in connection with such goods.
(3) A trade description which denotes or implies that in
any goods to which it is applied which contains more
metres or standard metres than contained therein, is a
false trade description.
Forging
marks.

190. A person shall be deemed to forge a Mark who either –

(a) without the assent of the owner of the Mark make
that Mark, or a Mark so nearly resembling that mark as
to be likely to mislead ; or

(b) falsifies any genuine Mark, whether by alteration,
addition, effacement or otherwise,
and any Mark so made or falsified is in this Part referred to as a
forged Mark :
Provided that in any prosecution for forging a Mark the burden
of proving the assent of the owner shall lie on the accused.

False
191. Any person whodeclaration
(a) Makes a false declaration to the Director-General ;
to be an
(b) Makes a false declaration in respect of
offence.
geographical indication inclusive of Ceylon Tea and
Ceylon Cinnamon,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
rupees.

Applying
192.
Marks and
descriptions.

(1) Any person shall be deemed to apply a Mark or
trade description to goods who(a) applies it to the goods itself ; or

(b) applies it to any covering, label, reel or
other thing in or with which the goods are
sold or exposed, or had in possession for any
purpose of sale, trade, or manufacture ; or
(c) places, encloses, or annexes any goods
which are sold or exposed, or had in
possession for the purpose of sale, trade, or
manufacture, in, with, or to any covering,
label, reel, or other thing to which a mark or
trade description has been applied ; or
(d) uses a Mark, or trade description in any
manner likely to lead to the belief that the
goods in connection with which it is used are
designated or described by that Mark, or
trade description.

(2) The expression “covering” includes any stopper,
cask, bottle, vessel, box, cover capsule, case, frame, or
wrapper ; and the expression “label” includes any band
or ticket.
(3) A Mark or trade description shall be deemed to be
applied whether it is woven, impressed, stamped,
branded, or otherwise worked into or annexed, or
affixed to the goods, or any covering, label, reel, or
other thing.

(4) A person shall be deemed to falsely apply to goods
a mark who, without the assent of the owner of a
Mark, applies such Mark or any Mark so nearly
resembling it as to be likely to mislead, but in any
prosecution for falsely applying a Mark to goods the
burden of proving the assent of the owner shall lie on
the accused.
Exemption
certain
persons
employed in
ordinary
course of
business.

193. Where a person is charged with of making any die, stamp

block, machine, or other instrument for the purpose of forging or
being used for forging, a Mark, or with falsely applying to goods
any Mark or any Mark so nearly resembling a mark as to be likely
to mislead, or with applying to goods any false trade description
or causing any of the things in this section mentioned to be
done, and such person proves-

(a) that in the ordinary course of his business he is
employed, on behalf of other persons, to make dies,
stamps blocks, machines, or other instruments for

making, or to be used in making, Marks, or as the case
may be, to apply Marks or descriptions to goods and
that in the case which is the subject of the charge he
was so employed by some person resident in Sri
Lanka, and was not interested in the goods by way of
profit or commission dependent on the sale of such
goods ; and

(b) that he took reasonable precautions against
committing the offence charged with ; and
(c) that he had, at the time of the commission of the
alleged offence, no reason to suspect the genuineness
of the Mark or trade description ; and
(d) that he gave to the prosecutor all the information
in his power with respect to the person on whose
behalf the Mark or description was applied,
he shall be discharged from the prosecution, but shall be liable to
pay the costs incurred by the prosecutor unless he gives due
notice to the prosecutor regarding his intention to rely on
defence specified in this section.

Mark how 194. In any indictment, charge, proceeding, or document in
described in which any mark or forged mark is required to be mentioned, it
pleading. shall be sufficient, without further description and without any
copy or facsimile, to state that Mark or forged Mark to be a Mark
or forged Mark.

Rules as to 195. In any prosecution for and offence under this Partevidence.
(a) an accused, and his or her spouse as the case may
be, may, if the accused thinks fit, be called as a
witness, and if called, shall be sworn and examined
and may be cross-examined and re-examined in like
manner as any other witness ;
(b) in the case of imported goods evidence of the port
of shipment shall be, prima facie, evidence of the
place or country in which the goods were made or
produced.

Punishment 196. Any person who, being within Sri Lanka, abets the
of
commission out side Sri Lanka of any act which, if committed
accessories. within Sri Lanka, would under this Part be an offence, shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence, and be liable to be indicted,
proceeded against, tried and convicted in any district or place in
Sri Lanka in which he may be as if the offence had been
committed therein.

Search
warrant.

For the purpose of this section “abet” shall have the same
meaning as in section 101 of the Penal Code. Search warrant.
197.

(1)

(a) Upon receipt of information of an offence
being committed under this Part, a
Magistrate may issue either a summons
requiring the person alleged to have
committed such offence to appear in court
and show cause or where such person fails to
appear issue a warrant for the arrest of such
person ;
(b) The Magistrate may upon being satisfied
by information on oath that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that any goods
or things by means of, or in relation to, which
such alleged offence has been committed are
in any house or premises of the person
charged on the basis of such information, or
in his possession or under his control, in any
place, such Magistrate may issue a warrant
under his hand ;

(c) It shall be lawful for any police officer, or
other person named or referred to in the
warrant, to enter such house, premises, or
place at any reasonable time of the day, and
to search therefore and seize such goods or
things ; and any goods or things seized under
any such warrant shall be brought before the
Magistrate’s Court for the purpose of
determining whether such goods are liable to
forfeiture under this Part.
(2)

(a) If the owner of any goods or things which,
if the owner thereof had been convicted,
would be liable to forfeiture under this Part, is
unknown or cannot be found, any information
or complaint may be led for the purpose only
of enforcing such forfeiture, and a Magistrate
may cause notice to be published requiring
reasons to be shown to the contrary at the
time and place named in the notice, as to why
such goods or things should not be forfeited.

(b) If the owner or any person on his behalf, or
other person interested in the goods or
things, fails to show sufficient cause to the
contrary at the time and place named in the
notice. Magistrate may order such goods or
things or any of them to be forfeited. Every
such order shall be subject to an appeal.
(3) Any goods or things forfeited under this section, or
under any other provisions of this Part, may be
destroyed or otherwise disposed of, in such manner as
the Magistrate who ordered the forfeiture may direct,
and the Magistrate out of any proceeds which may be
realized by the disposition of such goods (all marks
and trade descriptions being first obliterated), may
make an award to an innocent party for any loss he
may have sustained in dealing with such goods.
Costs of
198. In any prosecution under this Part the Court may order costs
defence and to be paid to the accused by the prosecutor or to the prosecutor
of
by the accused, having regard to the information given by, and
prosecution. the conduct of, the accused and prosecutor respectively, and the
sum so awarded as costs shall be recoverable as if it were a fine.
Provisions as 199. Where, at the commencement of this Act, a trade
to false
description is lawfully and generally applied to goods of a , or
description manufactured by a particular method, to certain cases. indicate
not to apply the particular class or method of manufacture of such goods, the
in particular provisions of this Part with respect to false trade descriptions
class.
shall not apply to such trade description when so applied :

Savings.

Provided that where such trade description includes the name of
a place or country, which is likely to mislead as to the place or
country where the goods to which it is applied were actually
made or produced, and the goods are not actually Savings. made
or produced in that place or country, the provisions of this
section shall not apply unless there is added to the trade
description, immediately before or after the name of that place
or country, in an equally conspicuous manner, the name of the
place or country in which the goods were actually made or
produced, with a statement that they were made or produced
there.
200.

(1) The Provisions of this Part shall not exempt any
person from any action, suit, or other proceeding
which might, but for the provisions of this Part, be
brought against him.
(2) Nothing in this Part shall entitle any person to
refuse to make a complete discovery, or to answer any
question or interrogatory in any action, but such
discovery or answer shall not be admissible in
evidence against such person in any prosecution for
an offence under this Part.

(3) Nothing in this Part shall be construed so as to
make any servant of a master resident in Sri Lanka
liable to a suit or prosecution due to disclosure of
information regarding the servant of a master, when
required by or on behalf of the prosecutor who, bona
fide, acts in compliance with the instructions of such
master.
Cognizable 201. All offences under this Part shall be cognizable and bailable,
and bailable within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
offences. 15 of 1979. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act shall apply to any offence committed under this Part.

Limitation of 202. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be
prosecution. commenced after the expiration of three years after the
commission of the offence charged or two years after the
discovery thereof by the prosecutor, which ever expiration first
occurs.
Implied
warranty on
sale of
marked
goods.

203. On the sale, or in the contract for the sale, of any implied

warranty goods to which a Mark, or trade description has been
applied, on sale of marked goods the vendor shall be deemed to
warrant that the Mark is a genuine Mark, and not forged or
falsely applied, or that the trade description is not a false trade
description within the meaning of this Part, unless the contrary is
expressed in writing signed by or on behalf of the vendor and
delivered at the time of the sale or contract to, and accepted by,
the vendee.

Regulations. 204.

CHAPTER XXXIX
REGULATIONS
(1) The Minister may from time to time make
regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving
effect to the principles and provisions of this Act and
in particular in respect of any matter required under
this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1) the Minister may make
regulations in respect of any or all of the following
matters :(a) the procedure of registration ;

(b) the classification of goods and services for
the purposes of registration ;
(c) the fees payable in respect of registration
and other matters ;

(d) the forms to be used for any purpose
under the Act;
(e) the setting up of organizations to
administer rights specified in Part II on behalf
of the owners of such rights and the
conditions under which such organizations
are required to work ;

(f) the admission, registration, cancellation,
removal and any other matter relating to
agents specified in Chapter XXXVI of the Act;
(g) The manner of the administration of the
Patent Co-operation Treaty in Sri Lanka ;

(h) all matters which under this Act have been
placed under the direction or control of the
Director-General.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation
on the date of such publication or on such later date
as may be specified therein.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be
brought before the Parliament for approval. Any such
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed
to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval, but
without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation
made by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded
shall be published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER XL
AMENDMENT OF HIGH COURT OF THE
PROVINCES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO.
10 OF 1996
Amendment 205. High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 10
of Act No of Act ,No 10 of 1996 is hereby amended as follows :.10 of 1996.
(1) by the repeal of item 3 of the First Schedule to that
Act and substitution therefore of the following :

“All proceedings required to be taken under the
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 in the High
Court established under Article 154 P of the
Constitution”.
(2) by the repeal of item 2 of the Second Schedule to
the Act.

CHAPTER XLI
AMENDMENT OF THE CUSTOMS
ORDINANCE
Amendment of
206. Section 101 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) is
section 101 of the hereby amended by the insertion immediately Amendment of
customs
section 101 of the Customs after paragraph (e) of that section of
Ordinance(Chapterthe following new ordinance paragraph :
235)
“(ee) for prohibiting of importation and exportation of
counterfeit trade mark goods or pirated copyright
goods or any other goods in contravention of the
provisions of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of
2003”.
Insertion of 207. The Customs Ordinance hereinafter referred to as “the
new sections Ordinance “is hereby amended in P art XIII of that Ordinance by
in the
the insertion immediately after section 125 thereof of the
customs
following new sections :
Ordinance.
“Inclusion 125A.
of
(1) The importation of counterfeit trade mark
prohibited
goods or pirated copyright goods or any
goods in
other goods in contravention of the
Schedule
provisions of the Intellectual Property Act,
B of
No. 36 of 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the
Customs
“Act”) shall be prohibited and such goods
Ordinance.
shall be included among the goods the
importation of which, are prohibited under
section 43 of the Ordinance and included in
Schedule B of the Ordinance as prohibited
goods.
(2) The exportation of the goods referred to
in subsection (1) of this section shall be
prohibited and such goods shall be included
among the goods the exportation of which,
are prohibited as if they were referred to in
section 44 of the Ordinance and included in
Schedule B of the Ordinance as prohibited
goods.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other law, prohibited goods referred to
in subsections (1) and (2) of this section, shall
be disposed of outside the channels of
commerce or if such disposal damages the
interests of the owner of any right protected
under the Act, be destroyed.

(4) “Counterfeit trade mark goods” mean any
goods including packaging, bearing without
authorization a trade mark which is identical
to a trade mark validly registered in respect
of such goods or which cannot be
distinguished in its essential aspects from
such a trade mark, and which thereby
infringes the rights of the owner of the trade
mark recognised by the Act.
(5) “Pirated copyright goods”‘ mean any
goods which are made without the consent of
the copyright holder or person duly
authorised by the copyright holder in the
country of production and which are made
directly or indirectly from an article where the
making of that copy would have constituted
an infringement of a copyright or a related
right by the Act.
Suspension125B.
of certain
goods by
Customs
Authorities.

(1) A right holder, who has valid grounds to
believe that the importation of counterfeit
trade mark or pirated copyright goods or of
any other goods in contravention of the right
holder’s rights under the Act is taking place,
may make an application in writing to the
Director-General, of customs requiring him
to suspend of the release of such goods into
free circulation.

(2) A right holder who makes an application
under subsection (1) shall provide adequate
evidence to satisfy the Director-General of
Customs that there is a, prima facie, case of
infringement of the right holder’s rights
under the Act and supply a sufficiently
detailed description of the goods to make
them readily recognisable by any officer of
the Customs.
(3)

(a) The Director-General of customs
shall have the power to require an
applicant to provide a security or
equivalent assurance sufficient to
protect the defendant and to prevent
any abuse ;

(b) Where pursuant to an application
made under subsection (1), the
Director-General
of
customs
suspends the release of any goods
into free circulation, he shall forthwith
cause the importer and the applicant
to be promptly notified the
suspension.
(4) If the Director-General of customs fails to
receive any notice regarding the institution
of proceedings in respect of the of release of
any goods suspended under subsection (3),
within a period not exceeding ten working
days after the applicant has been informed
of the suspension as provided for in
subsection (3), he shall cause the goods to
be released, provided all other conditions for
importation or exportation have been
complied with.

(5) Where pursuant to an application made
under subsection (1), the Director-General of
customs has suspended the release of any
goods into free circulation and the period
referred to in subsection (4) has expired
without the granting of any provisional relief
by a Court, and provided that all other
conditions for importation have been
complied with, the owner, importer or
consignee of such goods shall be entitled to
have such goods released.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in
the preceding provisions of this section,
where the suspension of the release of any
goods is carried out or continued in
accordance with an order of court, the
provisions of subsection 4 of section 170 of
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003,
shall apply.
(7) The court shall have the power to order
the applicant to pay the importer, the
consignee and the owner of the goods,
appropriate compensation for any harm
caused to them through the wrongful
detention of goods or through the detention
of goods released pursuant to the preceding
provisions of this section.

(8) Without prejudice to the protection of
confidential information, the Court shall have
power to give the right holder sufficient
opportunity to have any goods detained by
the customs authorities inspected in order to
substantiate the right holder’s claims. The
Court shall in addition have power to give
the importer an equivalent opportunity to
have any such goods inspected.

(9) Without prejudice to other rights of
action open to the right holder and the
defendant, the Court shall have the power to
order the destruction or disposal of any
infringing goods in accordance with the
principals set out in section 170 of
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003. In
regard to counterfeit trade mark goods, the
Court shall not other than in exceptional
circumstances allow the re exportation of the
infringing goods in an unrelated state or
subject them to a different customs
procedure.
(10) The provisions of sections 125A and
125B shall not apply to small quantities of
goods of a non-commercial nature contained
in a traveller’s personal luggage or forwarded
in small consignments.
(11) In this section, the expressions
“counterfeit trade mark goods” and “pirated
copyright goods” shall have the same
meanings as are assigned to them in section
125A.”

Repeals and 208.
savings.

CHAPTER XLII
REPEALS AND SAVINGS
(1) The Code of Intellectual Property Act, No. 52 of
1979 (hereinafter referred to as the “Code”) is hereby
repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code the
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka
established under the Code, and the officials
appointed under the Code shall continue and shall be
deemed to have been established and appointed
respectively under this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code every
regulation made thereunder as in force on the date of
commencement of this Act, in so far as such
regulation is not inconsistent, with the provisions of
this Act shall be deemed to be made under this Act,
and such regulations may be amended, rescinded or
altered by regulations made under this Act.
(4) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code –

(a) Every application for registration of an
Industrial Design, Patent or Mark made to the
Director-General under the provision of the
code and pending on the date immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall be deemed to be an application
made to the Director-General under Part III, IV
or V respectively of this Act, and shall be
dealt with in accordance with the provisions
of this Act ;
(b) any right specified in Part II of this Act,
which was granted on the date of coming into
operation of the repealed Code shall for all
purposes except for the purpose of imposing
punishment, continue to be valid and
effectual as if herein granted provided that
the term of protection previously granted has
not expired under the Code or under the laws
of the country of origin of such work,
performance, sound recording or broadcast
that are to be protected under any
international treaty to which Sri Lanka is a
party ;

(c) every action, proceeding or other matter
relating to Copyright, Industrial Designs,
Patents, Marks and unfair competition
pending on the day immediately preceding
the date of the commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to have been instituted
under the provision of this Act and shall be
continued and proceeded with under the
provisions of this Act ;

(d) nothing in Part III, IV, V or VI of this Act
shall affect any order or requirement made,
table of fees or certificates issued, notice,
decision, determination, direction or approval
given, application made, or thing done, under
the Code, and every such order, requirement,
table of fees, certificate, notice, decision,
determination, direction, approval, application
or thing shall, if in force on the date
immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed
to have been made under the provisions of
this Act and shall continue in force and shall,
so far as it could have been made, issued,
given or done under this Act have effect as if
made, issued, given or done under the
corresponding provisions of this Act ;
(e) all contracts, leases and agreements
subsisting on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall
be deemed for all purposes to be contracts,
leases or agreements made or entered into by
or with or for the office, under the provisions
of this Act.
(f) all interests, rights, obligations, debts and
liabilities of the office subsisting on the day
immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed
to be the interest, rights, obligations, debts
and to liabilities of the office, under the
provisions of this Act.
Saving of
Designs.

209. The validity of the original entry of a Design on the register

Savings of
Patents.

210. The validity of the original entry of a Patent on the register

Savings of
Marks

of Designs existing on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act or any register of Designs which was
kept under any previous law and was incorporated with and
declared to form Part of the Register of Designs, shall be
deemed to have been registered under Part III of this Act. Every
such Design shall however retain its original date.
of Patents existing on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act or any Register of Patents which was
kept under the previous laws and was incorporated with and
declared to form Part of the Register of Patent shall be deemed
to have been registered under Part IV of this Act. Every such
Patent shall however retain its Original date.
211.

(a) The validity of the original entry of a Mark on , the
Register of Marks existing on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act or
any register of Marks which was kept under any
previous law and was incorporated with and declared
to form Part of the Register of Marks shall be deemed
to have been registered under Part V of this Act. Every
such Mark shall however retain its original date.
(b) No mark which was on the Register on the day
immediately after the date of commencement of the
Code and which under the Code was then a registrable
mark shall be removed from the Register on the
ground that it was not registrable under the law in
force at the date of its registration.

(c) No mark which was on the Register on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of
the Act and which under Part V is a registrable mark
shall be removed from the register on the ground that
it was, not registrable, under the law in force at the
date of its registration.
(d) Nothing in Part V shall –

(i) invalidate the original registration of a mark
which had validity on the register immediately
before the date of commencement of this
Act; or

(ii) subject any person to any liability in
respect to any act or thing done before the
date of commencement of this Act, to which
he would not have been subject under the law
in force at the time such act or thing was
done.

CHAPTER XLIII
INTERPRETATION
Interpretation.212. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires –

“Central Bank of Sri Lanka” means the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka established under the Monetary Law Act
(Chapter 422) ;

“convention country” means any country that has
acceded to or ratified or that may hereafter accede to
or ratify the Paris Convention for the protection of
Industrial Property, as well as all members of the
World Trade Organisation or States that may here
after become members of the World Trade
Organisation, and includes any country which has
entered into or which may hereafter enter into any
treaty, convention or arrangement with Sri Lanka
creating reciprocal rights and obligations between
such country and Sri Lanka in regard to Industrial
Designs, Patents and Marks and any other matter
provided for by the Act and the registration thereof ;

“convention” means the Paris Convention for the
protection of Industrial Property, World Trade
Organisation or any other international or regional
convention, treaty or arrangement to which Sri Lanka
is party creating reciprocal rights and obligations
between such country and Sri Lanka in regard to
Industrial Designs, Patents. Marks and any other
matter provided for by the Act and the registration
there of ;

“Court” means a High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution for a Province empowered
with civil jurisdiction by Order published in the Gazette
under section 2 of the High Court of Provinces (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996 when the party or
parties defendant to such action resides or reside or
the cause of action has arisen or the contract sought
to be enforced was made within the Province for
which such High Court is established, or where no
such High Court is established for any Province or
vested with such civil jurisdiction the High Court
established for the Western Province ;
“Transgenic” means an organism that expresses a
characteristic not attainable normally by the species
under natural circumstances, but which has been
added by means of direct human intervention in its
genetic composition.”.
Sinhala text 213. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and
to prevail in Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall Prevail .
case of
inconsistency.

© Copyright 2016. Ministry of Justice - Sri Lanka. All Rights Reserved
Developed by Lanka Logistics & Technologies Ltd. - Ministry of Defence

!

"

#

$

%

