UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
The Under Secretary for International Trade
Washington , D.C. 20230

January 9, 2017

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Head of the Department of Economic Affairs, Education
and Research
Bundeshaus Ost
3003 Bern
Dear Federal Councillor:
On behalf of the International Trade Administration, I am pleased to describe the
enhanced protection of personal data that the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework ("Privacy
Shield" or "Framework") provides and the commitments the Department of Commerce
("Department") has made to ensure that the Privacy Shield operates effectively. Finalizing this
historic arrangement is a major achievement for privacy and for businesses in both Switzerland
and the United States. It offers confidence to Swiss individuals that their data will be protected
and that they will have legal remedies to address any concerns. It offers certainty that will help
grow the transatlantic economy by ensuring that Swiss and American businesses can continue to
invest and do business across our borders. We look forward to continuing to work with the
Swiss Administration and the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner ("the
Commissioner") to ensure that the Privacy Shield functions as intended.
We have worked with the Swiss Administration to develop the Privacy Shield, modeled
on the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, to allow organizations established in the United
States to meet the adequacy requirements for data protection under Swiss law. The new
Framework will yield several significant benefits for both individuals and businesses. First, it
provides an important set of privacy protections for the data of Swiss individuals. It requires
participating U.S. organizations to develop a conforming privacy policy, publicly commit to
comply with the Privacy Shield Principles so that the commitment becomes enforceable under
U.S. law, annually re-certify their compliance to the Department, provide free independent
dispute resolution to Swiss individuals, and be subject to the authority of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission ("FTC"), Department of Transportation ("DOT"), or another enforcement
agency. Second, the Privacy Shield will enable thousands of companies in the United States and
subsidiaries of Swiss companies in the United States to receive personal data from Switzerland to
facilitate data flows that support transatlantic trade. The U.S.-Swiss economic relationship is
significant, with total goods and services trade exceeding $100 billion in 2015, supporting jobs
on both sides of the Atlantic. Businesses that rely on Swiss-U.S. data flows come from all

T R A D E

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 2
industry sectors and include major Fortune 500 firms as well as man~ small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs). With $153 billion in total investment, the U.S. IS one ofthe lar~est sources
of foreign investment in Switzerland and Switzerland is the ih largest source of ~ore1gn
investment in the United States with $225 billion supporting more than 470,000 JObs.
Data flows from Switzerland to the United States allow U.S. organizations to process
data required to offer goods, services, and employment opportunities to Swiss individuals. The
Privacy Shield supports shared privacy principles, bridging the differences in our legal
approaches, while furthering trade and economic objectives of both Switzerland and the United
States.
While a company's decision to self-certify to this new Framework will be voluntary, once
a company publicly commits to the Privacy Shield, its commitment is enforceable under U.S.
law by either the Federal Trade Commission or Department of Transportation, depending on
which authority has jurisdiction over the Privacy Shield organization.
Enhancements under the Privacy Shield Principles

The resulting Privacy Shield strengthens the protection of privacy by:
•

•

•

requiring additional information be provided to individuals in the Notice Principle,
including a declaration of the organization's participation in the Privacy Shield, a
statement ofthe individual's right to access personal data, and the identification of the
relevant independent dispute resolution body;
strengthening protection of personal data that is transferred from a Privacy Shield
organization to a third party controller by requiring the parties to enter into a contract that
provides that such data may only be processed for limited and specified purposes
consistent with the consent provided by the individual and that the recipient will provide
the same level of protection as the Principles;
strengthening protection of personal data that is transferred from a Privacy Shield
organization to a third party agent, including by requiring a Privacy Shield organization
to: take reasonable and appropriate steps to ensure that the agent effectively processes the
personal information transferred in a manner consistent with the organization's
obligations under the Principles; upon notice, take reasonable and appropriate steps to
stop and remediate unauthorized processing; and provide a summary or a representative
copy of the relevant privacy provisions of its contract with that agent to the Department
upon request;

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 3
providing that a Privacy Shield organization is responsible for the processing of p~rsonal
information it receives under the Privacy Shield and subsequently transfers to a th1rd
party acting as an agent on its behalf, and that the Privacy Shield organization shall
remain liable under the Principles if its agent processes such personal information in a
manner inconsistent with the Principles, unless the organization proves that it is not
responsible for the event giving rise to the damage;
• clarifying that Privacy Shield organizations must limit personal information to the
information that is relevant for the purposes of processing;
• requiring an organization to annually certify with the Department its commitment to
apply the Principles to information it received while it participated in the Privacy Shield
if it leaves the Privacy Shield and chooses to keep such data;
• requiring that independent recourse mechanisms be provided at no cost to the individual;
• requiring organizations and their selected independent recourse mechanisms to respond
promptly to inquiries and requests by the Department for information relating to the
Privacy Shield;
• requiring organizations to respond expeditiously to complaints regarding compliance
with the Principles referred by the Commissioner through the Department; and
• requiring a Privacy Shield organization to make public any relevant Privacy Shieldrelated sections of any compliance or assessment report submitted to the FTC if it
becomes subject to an FTC or court order based on non-compliance.

•

To give organizations time to review the Principles and the commitments they entail, the
Department will begin accepting self-certifications 90 days after the effective date. The
Principles apply immediately upon certification.
Administration and Supervision of the Privacy Shield Program by the Department of
Commerce

The Department reiterates its commitment to maintain and make available to the public
an authoritative list of U.S. organizations that have self-certified to the Department and declared
their commitment to adhere to the Principles (the "Privacy Shield List"). The Department will
keep the Privacy Shield List up to date by removing organizations when they voluntarily
withdraw, fail to complete the annual re-certification in accordance with the Department' s
procedures, or are found to persistently fail to comply. The Department will also maintain and
make available to the public an authoritative record of U.S. organizations that had previously
self-certified to the Department, but that have been removed from the Privacy Shield List,
including those that were removed for persistent failure to comply with the Principles. The
Department will identify the reason each organization was removed.

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page4
In addition, the Department commits to strengthening the administration and supervision
of the Privacy Shield. Specifically, the Department will:
Provide Additional Information on the Privacy Shield Website
•

•

•

maintain the Privacy Shield List, as well as a record of those organizations that previously
self-certified their adherence to the Principles, but which are no longer assured of the benefits
of the Privacy Shield;
include a prominently placed explanation clarifying that all organizations removed from the
Privacy Shield List are no longer assured of the benefits of the Privacy Shield, but must
nevertheless continue to apply the Principles to the personal information that they received
while they participated in the Privacy Shield for as long as they retain such information; and
provide a link to the list of Privacy Shield-related FTC cases maintained on the FTC website.

Verify Self-Certification Requirements
•

prior to finalizing an organization's self-certification (or annual re-certification) and placing
an organization on the Privacy Shield List, verify that the organization has:
o provided required organization contact information;
o described the activities of the organization with respect to personal information
received from Switzerland;
o indicated what personal information is covered by its self-certification;
o if the organization has a public website, provided the web address where the privacy
policy is available and the privacy policy is accessible at the web address provided, or
if an organization does not have a public website, provided where the privacy policy
is available for viewing by the public;
o included in its relevant privacy policy a statement that it adheres to the Principles and
if the privacy policy is available online, a hyperlink to the Department's Privacy
Shield website;
o identified the specific statutory body that has jurisdiction to hear any claims against
the organization regarding possible unfair or deceptive practices and violations of
laws or regulations governing privacy (and that is listed in the Principles or a future
annex to the Principles);
o if the organization elects to satisfy the requirements in points (a)(i) and (a)(iii) of the
Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle by committing to cooperate with the
Commissioner, indicated its intention to cooperate with the Commissioner in the
investigation and resolution of complaints brought under the Privacy Shield, notably
to respond to their inquiries when Swiss data subjects have brought their complaints
directly to the Commissioner;
o identified any privacy program in which the organization is a member;

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 5
identified the method of verification of assuring compliance with the Principles (e.g.,
in-house, third party);
.
identified,
both
in
its
self-certification
submission
and
in
its
privacy
pollcy,
the
0
independent recourse mechanism that is available to investigate and resolve
complaints;
.
o included in its relevant privacy policy, if the policy is available online, a hyperl1nk to
the website or complaint submission form of the independent recourse mechanism
that is available to investigate unresolved complaints; and
o if the organization has indicated that it intends to receive human resources
information transferred from Switzerland for use in the context of the employment
relationship, declared its commitment to cooperate and comply with the
Commissioner to resolve complaints concerning its activities with regard to such data,
provided the Department with a copy of its human resources privacy policy, and
provided where the privacy policy is available for viewing by its affected employees.

0

•

work with independent recourse mechanisms to verify that the organizations have in fact
registered with the relevant mechanism indicated in their self-certification submissions,
where such registration is required.

Expand Efforts to Follow Up with Organizations That Have Been Removed from the Privacy
Shield List
•

•

notify organizations that are removed from the Privacy Shield List for "persistent failure to
comply" that they are not entitled to retain information collected under the Privacy Shield;
and
send questionnaires to organizations whose self-certifications lapse or who have voluntarily
withdrawn from the Privacy Shield to verify whether the organization will return, delete, or
continue to apply the Principles to the personal information that they received while they
participated in the Privacy Shield, and if personal information will be retained, verify who
within the organization will serve as an ongoing point of contact for Privacy Shield-related
questions.

Search for and Ad<,iress False Claims of Participation
•

•

review the privacy policies of organizations that have previously participated in the Privacy
Shield program, but that have been removed from the Privacy Shield List to identify any
false claims of Privacy Shield participation;
on an ongoing basis, when an organization: (a) withdraws from participation in the Privacy
Shield, (b) fails to recertify its adherence to the Principles, or (c) is removed as a participant
in the Privacy Shield notably for "persistent failure to comply," undertake, on an ex officio
basis, to verify that the organization has removed from any relevant published privacy policy

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 6
any references to the Privacy Shield that imply that the organization continues to actively
participate in the Privacy Shield and is entitled to its benefits. Where the Department finds
that such references have not been removed, the Department will warn the organization that
the Department will, as appropriate, refer matters to the relevant agency for potential
enforcement action if it continues to make the claim of Privacy Shield certification. If the
organization neither removes the references nor self-certifies its compliance under the
Privacy Shield, the Department will ex officio refer the matter to the FTC, DOT, or other
appropriate enforcement agency or, in appropriate cases, take action to enforce the Privacy
Shield certification mark;
• undertake other efforts to identify false claims of Privacy Shield participation and improper
use of the Privacy Shield certification mark, including by conducting Internet searches to
identify where images of the Privacy Shield certification mark are being displayed and
references to Privacy Shield in organizations' privacy policies;
• promptly address any issues that we identify during our ex officio monitoring of false claims
of participation and misuse of the certification mark, including warning organizations
misrepresenting their participation in the Privacy Shield program as described above;
• take other appropriate corrective action, including pursuing any legal recourse the
Department is authorized to take and referring matters to the FTC, DOT, or another
appropriate enforcement agency; and
• promptly review and address complaints about false claims of participation that we receive.
The Department will undertake reviews of privacy policies of organizations to more
effectively identify and address false claims of Privacy Shield participation. Specifically, the
Department will review the privacy policies of organizations whose self-certification has lapsed
due to their failure to re-certify adherence to the Principles. The Department will conduct this
type of review to verify that such organizations have removed from any relevant published
privacy policy any references that imply that the organizations continue to actively participate in
the Privacy Shield. As a result of these types of reviews, we will identify organizations that have
not removed such references and send those organizations a letter from the Department's Office
of General Counsel warning of potential enforcement action if the references are not removed.
The Department will take follow-up action to ensure that the organizations either remove the
inappropriate references or re-certify their adherence to the Principles. In addition, the
Department will undertake efforts to identify false claims of Privacy Shield participation by
organizations that have never participated in the Privacy Shield program, and will take similar
corrective action with respect to such organizations.
Conduct Periodic ex officio Compliance Reviews and Assessments of the Program
•

on an ongoing basis, monitor effective compliance, including through sending detailed
questionnaires to participating organizations, to identify issues that may warrant further

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 7
follow-up action. In particular, such compliance reviews shall take place when: (a) the
Department has received specific non-frivolous complaints about an organization's
compliance with the Principles, (b) an organization does not respond satisfactorily to
inquiries by the Department for information relating to the Privacy Shield, or (c) there is
credible evidence that an organization does not comply with its commitments under the
Privacy Shield. The Department shall, when appropriate, consult with the Commissioner
about such compliance reviews; and
•

assess periodically the administration and supervision of the Privacy Shield program to
ensure that monitoring efforts are appropriate to address new issues as they arise.

The Department has increased the resources that will be devoted to the administration
and supervision of the Privacy Shield program, including doubling the number of staff
responsible for the administration and supervision of the program. We will continue to dedicate
appropriate resources to such efforts to ensure effective monitoring and administration of the
program.
Tailor the Privacy Shield Website to Targeted Audiences
The Department will tailor the Privacy Shield website to focus on three target audiences:
individuals in Europe, European businesses, and U.S. businesses. The inclusion of material
targeted directly to individuals and European businesses will facilitate transparency in a number
of ways. With regard to individuals, it will clearly explain: (1) the rights the Privacy Shield
provides to Swiss individuals; (2) the recourse mechanisms available to Swiss individuals when
they believe an organization has breached its commitment to comply with the Principles; and (3)
how to find information pertaining to an organization's Privacy Shield self-certification. With
regard to European businesses, it will facilitate verification of: (1) whether an organization is
assured of the benefits of the Privacy Shield; (2) the type of information covered by an
organization's Privacy Shield self-certification; (3) the privacy policy that applies to the covered
information; and (4) the method the organization uses to verify its adherence to the Principles.
Increase Cooperation with the Commissioner
To increase opportunities for cooperation with the Commissioner, the Department will
establish a dedicated contact at the Department to act as a liaison with the Commissioner. In
instances where the Commissioner believes that an organization is not complying with the
Principles, including following a complaint from a Swiss individual, the Commissioner can reach
out to the dedicated contact at the Department to refer the organization for further review. The
contact will also receive referrals regarding organizations that falsely claim to participate in the
Privacy Shield, despite never having self-certified their adherence to the Principles. The contact
will assist the Commissioner seeking information related to a specific organization's self-

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 8

certification or previous participation in the program, and the contact will respond to the
Commissioner's inquiries regarding the implementation of specific Privacy Shield requirements.
Second, the Department will provide the Commissioner with material regarding the Privacy
Shield for inclusion on its own website to increase transparency for Swiss individuals and Swiss
businesses. Increased awareness regarding the Privacy Shield and the rights and responsibilities
it creates should facilitate the identification of issues as they arise, so that these can be
appropriately addressed.
Facilitate Resolution of Complaints about Non-Compliance
The Department, through the dedicated contact, will receive complaints referred to the
Department by the Commissioner that a Privacy Shield organization is not complying with the
Principles. The Department will make its best effort to facilitate resolution of the complaint with
the Privacy Shield organization. Within 90 days after receipt of the complaint, the Department
will provide an update to the Commissioner. To facilitate the submission of such complaints, the
Department will create a standard form for the Commissioner to submit to the Department's
dedicated contact. The dedicated contact will track all referrals from the Commissioner received
by the Department, and the Department will provide in the annual review described below a
report analyzing in aggregate the complaints it receives each year.
Joint Review Mechanism of the Functioning of the Privacy Shield
The Department of Commerce, the FTC, and other agencies, as appropriate, will hold
annual meetings with the Swiss Administration and the Commissioner, where the Department
will provide updates on the Privacy Shield program. The annual meetings will include
discussion of current issues related to the functioning, implementation, supervision, and
enforcement of the Privacy Shield, including referrals received by the Department from the
Commissioner, the results of ex officio compliance reviews, and may also include discussion of
relevant changes of law.
Implement the Arbitral Model
At the first annual review, the Department will work with the Swiss Administration to put
in place the binding arbitration option in Annex I.
Update of Laws
The Department will make reasonable efforts to inform the Swiss Administration and the
Commissioner of material developments in the law in the United States so far as they are
relevant to the Privacy Shield in the field of data privacy protection and the limitations and
safeguards applicable to access to personal data by U.S. authorities and its subsequent use.

Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Page 9

National Security Exception
With respect to the limitations to the adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles for
national security purposes, the General Counsel of the Office ofthe Director ofNational
Intelligence, Robert Litt, has also sent two letters addressed to Justin Antonipillai and Ted Dean
ofthe Department of Commerce, and we refer you to these letters which are publicly
available. These letters extensively discuss, among other things, the policies, safeguards, and
limitations that apply to signals intelligence activities conducted by the U.S. In addition, these
letters describe the transparency provided by the Intelligence Community about these
matters. As the Swiss authorities are assessing the Privacy Shield Framework, the information in
these letters provides assurance to conclude that the Privacy Shield will operate appropriately, in
accordance with the Principles therein. We understand that you may raise information that has
been released publicly by the Intelligence Community, along with other information, in the
future to inform the annual review of the Privacy Shield Framework.
On the basis of the Privacy Shield Principles and the accompanying letters and materials,
including the Department's commitments regarding the administration and supervision of the
Privacy Shield Framework, our expectation is that the Swiss authorities will determine that the
Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework provides adequate protection for the purposes of Swiss
law and data transfers from Switzerland will continue to organizations that participate in the
Privacy Shield.
Sincerely,

~

Ken Hyatt,

Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield
Principles

SWISS-U.S. PRIVACY SHIELD FRAMEWORK PRINCIPLES
ISSUED BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

I.

OVERVIEW
1.

While the United States and Switzerland share the goal of enhancing privacy
protection for their citizens, the United States takes a different approach to privacy
from that taken by Switzerland. The United States uses a sectoral approach that
relies on a mix of legislation, regulation, and self-regulation. Given those
differences and to provide organizations in the United States with a reliable
mechanism for personal data transfers to the United States from Switzerland while
ensuring that Swiss data subjects continue to benefit from effective safeguards and
protection as required by Swiss legislation with respect to the processing of their
personal data when they have been transferred to other countries, the Department
of Commerce is issuing these Privacy Shield Principles, including the
Supplemental Principles (collectively “the Principles”) under its statutory authority
to foster, promote, and develop international commerce (15 U.S.C. § 1512). As the
Swiss and EU law on data protection may be considered equivalent, the Swiss-U.S.
Privacy Shield Principles and Supplemental Principles are modeled on the
Principles and Supplemental Principles developed for the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield
Framework. They are intended for use solely by organizations in the United States
receiving personal data from Switzerland for the purpose of qualifying for the
Privacy Shield and thus benefitting from Switzerland’s recognition of adequacy.
The Principles do not affect the application of national provisions implementing the
Federal Act on Data Protection (“FADP”) that apply to the processing of personal
data in Switzerland. Nor do the Principles limit privacy obligations that otherwise
apply under U.S. law.

2.

In order to rely on the Privacy Shield to effectuate transfers of personal data from
Switzerland, an organization must self-certify its adherence to the Principles to the
Department of Commerce (or its designee) (“the Department”). While decisions
by organizations to thus enter the Privacy Shield are entirely voluntary, effective
compliance is compulsory: organizations that self-certify to the Department and
publicly declare their commitment to adhere to the Principles must comply fully
with the Principles. In order to enter the Privacy Shield, an organization must (a)
be subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the Federal Trade
Commission (the “FTC”), the Department of Transportation or another statutory
body that will effectively ensure compliance with the Principles (other U.S.
statutory bodies recognized by Switzerland may be included as an annex in the
future); (b) publicly declare its commitment to comply with the Principles; (c)
publicly disclose its privacy policies in line with these Principles; and (d) fully
implement them. An organization’s failure to comply is enforceable under Section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts in or
affecting commerce (15 U.S.C. § 45(a)) or other laws or regulations prohibiting
such acts.
2

3.

The Department of Commerce will maintain and make available to the public an
authoritative list of U.S. organizations that have self-certified to the Department
and declared their commitment to adhere to the Principles (“the Privacy Shield
List”). Privacy Shield benefits are assured from the date that the Department places
the organization on the Privacy Shield List. The Department will remove an
organization from the Privacy Shield List if it voluntarily withdraws from the
Privacy Shield or if it fails to complete its annual re-certification to the Department.
An organization’s removal from the Privacy Shield List means it may no longer
benefit from Switzerland’s recognition of adequacy to receive personal information
from Switzerland. The organization must continue to apply the Principles to the
personal information it received while it participated in the Privacy Shield, and
affirm to the Department on an annual basis its commitment to do so, for as long as
it retains such information; otherwise, the organization must return or delete the
information or provide “adequate” protection for the information by another
authorized means. The Department will also remove from the Privacy Shield List
those organizations that have persistently failed to comply with the Principles; these
organizations do not qualify for Privacy Shield benefits and must return or delete
the personal information they received under the Privacy Shield.

4.

The Department will also maintain and make available to the public an authoritative
record of U.S. organizations that had previously self-certified to the Department,
but that have been removed from the Privacy Shield List. The Department will
provide a clear warning that these organizations are not participants in the Privacy
Shield; that removal from the Privacy Shield List means that such organizations
cannot claim to be Privacy Shield compliant and must avoid any statements or
misleading practices implying that they participate in the Privacy Shield; and that
such organizations are no longer entitled to benefit from Switzerland’s recognition
of adequacy that would enable those organizations to receive personal information
from Switzerland. An organization that continues to claim participation in the
Privacy Shield or makes other Privacy Shield-related misrepresentations after it has
been removed from the Privacy Shield List may be subject to enforcement action
by the FTC, the Department of Transportation, or other enforcement authorities.

5.

Adherence to these Principles may be limited: (a) to the extent necessary to meet
national security, public interest, or law enforcement requirements; (b) by statute,
government regulation, or case law that creates conflicting obligations or explicit
authorizations, provided that, in exercising any such authorization, an organization
can demonstrate that its non-compliance with the Principles is limited to the extent
necessary to meet the overriding legitimate interests furthered by such
authorization; or (c) if the effect of Swiss data protection measures is to allow
exceptions or derogations, provided such exceptions or derogations are applied in
comparable contexts. Consistent with the goal of enhancing privacy protection,
organizations should strive to implement these Principles fully and transparently,
3

including indicating in their privacy policies where exceptions to the Principles
permitted by (b) above will apply on a regular basis. For the same reason, where
the option is allowable under the Principles and/or U.S. law, organizations are
expected to opt for the higher protection where possible.
6.

Organizations are obligated to apply the Principles to all personal data transferred
in reliance on the Privacy Shield after they enter the Privacy Shield. An
organization that chooses to extend Privacy Shield benefits to human resources
personal information transferred from Switzerland for use in the context of an
employment relationship must indicate this when it self-certifies to the Department
and conform to the requirements set forth in the Supplemental Principle on SelfCertification.

7.

U.S. law will apply to questions of interpretation and compliance with the
Principles and relevant privacy policies by Privacy Shield organizations, except
where such organizations have committed to cooperate with the Federal Data
Protection and Information Commissioner (the “Commissioner”).
Unless
otherwise stated, all provisions of the Principles apply where they are relevant.

8.

Definitions:

9.

a.

“Personal data” and “personal information” are data about an identified or
identifiable individual that are within the scope of the FADP, received by
an organization in the United States from Switzerland, and recorded in any
form.

b.

“Processing” of personal data means any operation or set of operations
which is performed upon personal data, whether or not by automated means,
such as collection, recording, organization, storage, adaptation or alteration,
retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure or dissemination, and erasure or
destruction.

c.

“Controller” means a person or organization which, alone or jointly with
others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal
data.

The effective date of the Principles is the date of final approval of Switzerland’s
recognition of adequacy.

4

II.

PRINCIPLES
1.

NOTICE
a.

An organization must inform individuals about:
i.

its participation in the Privacy Shield and provide a link
to, or the web address for, the Privacy Shield List,

ii.

the types of personal data collected and, where applicable,
the entities or subsidiaries of the organization also
adhering to the Principles,

iii.

its commitment to subject to the Principles all personal
data received from Switzerland in reliance on the Privacy
Shield,

iv.

the purposes for which it collects and uses personal
information about them,

v.

how to contact the organization with any inquiries or
complaints, including any relevant establishment in
Switzerland that can respond to such inquiries or
complaints,

vi.

the type or identity of third parties to which it discloses
personal information, and the purposes for which it does
so,

vii.

the right of individuals to access their personal data,

viii.

the choices and means the organization offers individuals
for limiting the use and disclosure of their personal data,

ix.

the independent dispute resolution body designated to
address complaints and provide appropriate recourse free
of charge to the individual, and whether it is: (1) the
Commissioner, (2) an alternative dispute resolution
provider based in Switzerland, or (3) an alternative
dispute resolution provider based in the United States,

x.

being subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers
of the FTC, the Department of Transportation or any other
U.S. authorized statutory body,

xi.

the possibility, under certain conditions, for the individual
to invoke binding arbitration,

xii.

the requirement to disclose personal information in
response to lawful requests by public authorities,
including to meet national security or law enforcement
requirements, and
5

xiii.
b.

2.

its liability in cases of onward transfers to third parties.

This notice must be provided in clear and conspicuous language when
individuals are first asked to provide personal information to the
organization or as soon thereafter as is practicable, but in any event before
the organization uses such information for a purpose other than that for
which it was originally collected or processed by the transferring
organization or discloses it for the first time to a third party.

CHOICE
a.

An organization must offer individuals the opportunity to choose (opt out)
whether their personal information is (i) to be disclosed to a third party or
(ii) to be used for a purpose that is materially different from the purpose(s)
for which it was originally collected or subsequently authorized by the
individuals. Individuals must be provided with clear, conspicuous, and
readily available mechanisms to exercise choice.

b.

By derogation to the previous paragraph, it is not necessary to provide
choice when disclosure is made to a third party that is acting as an agent to
perform task(s) on behalf of and under the instructions of the organization.
However, an organization shall always enter into a contract with the agent.

c.

For sensitive information (i.e., personal information specifying medical or
health conditions, personal sexuality, racial or ethnic origin, political
opinions, religious, ideological or trade union-related views or activities, or
information on social security measures or administrative or criminal
proceedings and sanctions, which are treated outside pending proceedings),
organizations must obtain affirmative express consent (opt in) from
individuals if such information is to be (i) disclosed to a third party or (ii)
used for a purpose other than those for which it was originally collected or
subsequently authorized by the individuals through the exercise of opt-in
choice. In addition, an organization should treat as sensitive any personal
information received from a third party where the third party identifies and
treats it as sensitive.

6

3.

4.

ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ONWARD TRANSFER
a.

To transfer personal information to a third party acting as a controller,
organizations must comply with the Notice and Choice Principles.
Organizations must also enter into a contract with the third-party controller
that provides that such data may only be processed for limited and specified
purposes consistent with the consent provided by the individual and that the
recipient will provide the same level of protection as the Principles and will
notify the organization if it makes a determination that it can no longer meet
this obligation. The contract shall provide that when such a determination
is made the third party controller ceases processing or takes other reasonable
and appropriate steps to remediate.

b.

To transfer personal data to a third party acting as an agent, organizations
must: (i) transfer such data only for limited and specified purposes; (ii)
ascertain that the agent is obligated to provide at least the same level of
privacy protection as is required by the Principles; (iii) take reasonable and
appropriate steps to ensure that the agent effectively processes the personal
information transferred in a manner consistent with the organization’s
obligations under the Principles; (iv) require the agent to notify the
organization if it makes a determination that it can no longer meet its
obligation to provide the same level of protection as is required by the
Principles; (v) upon notice, including under (iv), take reasonable and
appropriate steps to stop and remediate unauthorized processing; and (vi)
provide a summary or a representative copy of the relevant privacy
provisions of its contract with that agent to the Department upon request.

SECURITY
a.

5.

Organizations creating, maintaining, using or disseminating personal
information must take reasonable and appropriate measures to protect it
from loss, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and
destruction, taking into due account the risks involved in the processing and
the nature of the personal data.

DATA INTEGRITY AND PURPOSE LIMITATION
a.

Consistent with the Principles, personal information must be limited to the
information that is relevant for the purposes of processing. 1 An
organization may not process personal information in a way that is
incompatible with the purposes for which it has been collected or

1

Depending on the circumstances, examples of compatible processing purposes may include
those that reasonably serve customer relations, compliance and legal considerations, auditing,
security and fraud prevention, preserving or defending the organization’s legal rights, or other
purposes consistent with the expectations of a reasonable person given the context of the
collection.
7

subsequently authorized by the individual. To the extent necessary for those
purposes, an organization must take reasonable steps to ensure that personal
data is reliable for its intended use, accurate, complete, and current. An
organization must adhere to the Principles for as long as it retains such
information.
Information may be retained in a form identifying or making identifiable2
the individual only for as long as it serves a purpose of processing within
the meaning of 5a. This obligation does not prevent organizations from
processing personal information for longer periods for the time and to the
extent such processing reasonably serves the purposes of archiving in the
public interest, journalism, literature and art, scientific or historical
research, and statistical analysis. In these cases, such processing shall be
subject to the other Principles and provisions of the Framework.
Organizations should take reasonable and appropriate measures in
complying with this provision.

b.

6.

ACCESS
a.

7.

Individuals must have access to personal information about them that an
organization holds and be able to correct, amend, or delete that information
where it is inaccurate, or has been processed in violation of the Principles,
except where the burden or expense of providing access would be
disproportionate to the risks to the individual’s privacy in the case in
question, or where the rights of persons other than the individual would be
violated.

RECOURSE, ENFORCEMENT AND LIABILITY
a.

Effective privacy protection must include robust mechanisms for assuring
compliance with the Principles, recourse for individuals who are affected
by non-compliance with the Principles, and consequences for the
organization when the Principles are not followed. At a minimum such
mechanisms must include:
i.

readily available independent recourse mechanisms by which each
individual’s complaints and disputes are investigated and
expeditiously resolved at no cost to the individual and by reference
to the Principles, and damages awarded where the applicable law or
private-sector initiatives so provide;

2

In this context, if, given the means of identification reasonably likely to be used (considering,
among other things, the costs of and the amount of time required for identification and the
available technology at the time of the processing) and the form in which the data is retained, an
individual could reasonably be identified by the organization, or a third party if it would have
access to the data, then the individual is "identifiable."
8

ii.

follow-up procedures for verifying that the attestations and
assertions organizations make about their privacy practices are true
and that privacy practices have been implemented as presented and,
in particular, with regard to cases of non-compliance; and

iii.

obligations to remedy problems arising out of failure to comply with
the Principles by organizations announcing their adherence to them
and consequences for such organizations. Sanctions must be
sufficiently rigorous to ensure compliance by organizations.

b.

Organizations and their selected independent recourse mechanisms will
respond promptly to inquiries and requests by the Department for
information relating to the Privacy Shield. All organizations must respond
expeditiously to complaints regarding compliance with the Principles
referred by the Commissioner through the Department. Organizations that
have chosen to cooperate with the Commissioner, including organizations
that process human resources data, must respond directly to such authorities
with regard to the investigation and resolution of complaints.

c.

Organizations are obligated to arbitrate claims and follow the terms as set
forth in Annex I, provided that an individual has invoked binding arbitration
by delivering notice to the organization at issue and following the
procedures and subject to conditions set forth in Annex I.

d.

In the context of an onward transfer, a Privacy Shield organization has
responsibility for the processing of personal information it receives under
the Privacy Shield and subsequently transfers to a third party acting as an
agent on its behalf. The Privacy Shield organization shall remain liable
under the Principles if its agent processes such personal information in a
manner inconsistent with the Principles, unless the organization proves that
it is not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.

e. When an organization becomes subject to an FTC or court order based on noncompliance, the organization shall make public any relevant Privacy Shield-related
sections of any compliance or assessment report submitted to the FTC, to the extent
consistent with confidentiality requirements. The Department has established a
dedicated point of contact for the Commissioner for any problems of compliance by
Privacy Shield organizations. The FTC will give priority consideration to referrals of
non-compliance with the Principles from the Department and the Commissioner, and
will exchange information regarding referrals with the referring state authority on a
timely basis, subject to existing confidentiality restrictions.

9

III.

SUPPLEMENTAL PRINCIPLES
1.

Sensitive Data
a.

2.

3.

An organization is not required to obtain affirmative express consent (opt
in) with respect to sensitive data where the processing is:
i.

in the vital interests of the data subject or another person;

ii.

necessary for the establishment of legal claims or defenses;

iii.

required to provide medical care or diagnosis;

iv.

carried out in the course of legitimate activities by a foundation,
association or any other non-profit body with a political,
philosophical, religious or trade-union aim and on condition that the
processing relates solely to the members of the body or to the
persons who have regular contact with it in connection with its
purposes and that the data are not disclosed to a third party without
the consent of the data subjects;

v.

necessary to carry out the organization’s obligations in the field of
employment law; or

vi.

related to data that are manifestly made public by the individual.

Journalistic Exceptions
a.

Given U.S. constitutional protections for freedom of the press and the Swiss
exemption for journalistic material, where the rights of a free press
embodied in the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution intersect with
privacy protection interests, the First Amendment must govern the
balancing of these interests with regard to the activities of U.S. persons or
organizations.

b.

Personal information that is gathered for publication, broadcast, or other
forms of public communication of journalistic material, whether used or
not, as well as information found in previously published material
disseminated from media archives, is not subject to the requirements of the
Privacy Shield Principles.

Secondary Liability
a.

Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), telecommunications carriers, and other
organizations are not liable under the Privacy Shield Principles when on
behalf of another organization they merely transmit, route, switch, or cache
information. As is the case with the FADP itself, the Privacy Shield does
not create secondary liability. To the extent that an organization is acting
as a mere conduit for data transmitted by third parties and does not

10

determine the purposes and means of processing those personal data, it
would not be liable.
4.

5.

Performing Due Diligence and Conducting Audits
a.

The activities of auditors and investment bankers may involve processing
personal data without the consent or knowledge of the individual. This is
permitted by the Notice, Choice, and Access Principles under the
circumstances described below.

b.

Public stock corporations and closely held companies, including Privacy
Shield organizations, are regularly subject to audits. Such audits,
particularly those looking into potential wrongdoing, may be jeopardized if
disclosed prematurely. Similarly, a Privacy Shield organization involved in
a potential merger or takeover will need to perform, or be the subject of, a
“due diligence” review. This will often entail the collection and processing
of personal data, such as information on senior executives and other key
personnel. Premature disclosure could impede the transaction or even
violate applicable securities regulation. Investment bankers and attorneys
engaged in due diligence, or auditors conducting an audit, may process
information without knowledge of the individual only to the extent and for
the period necessary to meet statutory or public interest requirements and in
other circumstances in which the application of these Principles would
prejudice the legitimate interests of the organization. These legitimate
interests include the monitoring of organizations’ compliance with their
legal obligations and legitimate accounting activities, and the need for
confidentiality connected with possible acquisitions, mergers, joint
ventures, or other similar transactions carried out by investment bankers or
auditors.

The Role of the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner
a.

Organizations will implement their commitment to cooperate with the
Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (the
“Commissioner”) as described below. Under the Privacy Shield, U.S.
organizations receiving personal data from Switzerland must commit to
employ effective mechanisms for assuring compliance with the Privacy
Shield Principles. More specifically as set out in the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle, participating organizations must
provide: (a)(i) recourse for individuals to whom the data relate; (a)(ii)
follow up procedures for verifying that the attestations and assertions they
have made about their privacy practices are true; and (a)(iii) obligations to
remedy problems arising out of failure to comply with the Principles and
consequences for such organizations. An organization may satisfy points
(a)(i) and (a)(iii) of the Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle if it
adheres to the requirements set forth here for cooperating with the
Commissioner.
11

b.

An organization commits to cooperate with the Commissioner by declaring
in its Privacy Shield self-certification submission to the Department of
Commerce (see Supplemental Principle on Self-Certification) that the
organization:
i.

elects to satisfy the requirement in points (a)(i) and (a)(iii) of the
Privacy Shield Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle by
committing to cooperate with the Commissioner;

ii.

will cooperate with the Commissioner in the investigation and
resolution of complaints brought under the Privacy Shield; and

iii.

will comply with any advice given by the Commissioner where the
Commissioner takes the view that the organization needs to take
specific action to comply with the Privacy Shield Principles,
including remedial or compensatory measures for the benefit of
individuals affected by any non-compliance with the Principles, and
will provide the Commissioner with written confirmation that such
action has been taken.

c.

Cooperation with the Commissioner
i.

The cooperation with the Commissioner will be provided in the
form of information and advice in the following way:
1.

The advice of the Commissioner will be delivered directly.

2.

The Commissioner will provide advice to the U.S.
organizations concerned on unresolved complaints from
individuals about the handling of personal information that
has been transferred from Switzerland under the Privacy
Shield. This advice will be designed to ensure that the
Privacy Shield Principles are being correctly applied and
will include any remedies for the individual(s) concerned
that the Commissioner considers appropriate.

3.

The Commissioner will provide such advice in response to
referrals from the organizations concerned and/or to
complaints received directly from individuals against
organizations which have committed to cooperate with the
Commissioner for Privacy Shield purposes, while
encouraging and if necessary helping such individuals in the
first instance to use the in-house complaint handling
arrangements that the organization may offer.

4.

Advice will be issued only after both sides in a dispute have
had a reasonable opportunity to comment and to provide any
evidence they wish. The Commissioner will seek to deliver
advice as quickly as this requirement for due process allows.
As a general rule, the Commissioner will aim to provide

12

advice within 60 days after receiving a complaint or referral
and more quickly where possible.

ii.

d.

6.

5.

The Commissioner will make public the results of its
consideration of complaints submitted to it, if it sees fit.

6.

The delivery of advice through the Commissioner will not
give rise to any liability for the Commissioner.

As noted above, organizations choosing this option for dispute
resolution must undertake to comply with the advice of the
Commissioner. If an organization fails to comply within 25 days of
the delivery of the advice and has offered no satisfactory
explanation for the delay, the Commissioner will give notice of its
intention either to refer the matter to the Federal Trade Commission,
the Department of Transportation, or other U.S. federal or state
body with statutory powers to take enforcement action in cases of
deception or misrepresentation, or to conclude that the agreement to
cooperate has been seriously breached and must therefore be
considered null and void. In the latter case, the Commissioner will
inform the Department of Commerce so that the Privacy Shield List
can be duly amended. Any failure to fulfill the undertaking to
cooperate with the Commissioner, as well as failures to comply with
the Privacy Shield Principles, will be actionable as a deceptive
practice under Section 5 of the FTC Act or other similar statute.

An organization that wishes its Privacy Shield benefits to cover human
resources data transferred from Switzerland in the context of the
employment relationship must commit to cooperate with the Commissioner
with regard to such data (see Supplemental Principle on Human Resources
Data).

Self-Certification
a.

Privacy Shield benefits are assured from the date on which the Department
has placed the organization’s self-certification submission on the Privacy
Shield List after having determined that the submission is complete.

b.

To self-certify for the Privacy Shield, an organization must provide to the
Department a self-certification submission, signed by a corporate officer on
behalf of the organization that is joining the Privacy Shield, that contains at
least the following information:
i.

name of organization, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone,
and fax numbers;

ii.

description of the activities of the organization with respect to
personal information received from Switzerland; and

iii.

description of the organization’s privacy policy for such personal
information, including:
13

1.

if the organization has a public website, the relevant web
address where the privacy policy is available, or if the
organization does not have a public website, where the
privacy policy is available for viewing by the public;

2.

its effective date of implementation;

3.

a contact office for the handling of complaints, access
requests, and any other issues arising under the Privacy
Shield;

4.

the specific statutory body that has jurisdiction to hear any
claims against the organization regarding possible unfair or
deceptive practices and violations of laws or regulations
governing privacy (and that is listed in the Principles or a
future annex to the Principles);

5.

name of any privacy program in which the organization is a
member;

6.

method of verification (e.g., in-house, third party) (see
Supplemental Principle on Verification); and

7.

the independent recourse mechanism that is available to
investigate unresolved complaints.

c.

Where the organization wishes its Privacy Shield benefits to cover human
resources information transferred from Switzerland for use in the context
of the employment relationship, it may do so where a statutory body listed
in the Principles or a future annex to the Principles has jurisdiction to hear
claims against the organization arising out of the processing of human
resources information. In addition, the organization must indicate this in
its self-certification submission and declare its commitment to cooperate
with the Commissioner in conformity with the Supplemental Principles on
Human Resources Data and the Role of the Federal Data Protection and
Information Commissioner as applicable and that it will comply with the
advice given by the Commissioner. The organization must also provide the
Department with a copy of its human resources privacy policy and provide
information where the privacy policy is available for viewing by its affected
employees.

d.

The Department will maintain the Privacy Shield List of organizations that
file completed self-certification submissions, thereby assuring the
availability of Privacy Shield benefits, and will update such list on the basis
of annual self-recertification submissions and notifications received
pursuant to the Supplemental Principle on Dispute Resolution and
Enforcement. Such self-certification submissions must be provided not less
than annually; otherwise the organization will be removed from the Privacy
Shield List and Privacy Shield benefits will no longer be assured. Both the
Privacy Shield List and the self-certification submissions by the
14

organizations will be made publicly available. All organizations that are
placed on the Privacy Shield List by the Department must also state in their
relevant published privacy policy statements that they adhere to the Privacy
Shield Principles. If available online, an organization’s privacy policy must
include a hyperlink to the Department’s Privacy Shield website and a
hyperlink to the website or complaint submission form of the independent
recourse mechanism that is available to investigate unresolved complaints.
e.

The Privacy Principles apply immediately upon certification.

f.

An organization must subject to the Privacy Shield Principles all personal
data received from Switzerland in reliance upon the Privacy Shield. The
undertaking to adhere to the Privacy Shield Principles is not time-limited in
respect of personal data received during the period in which the
organization enjoys the benefits of the Privacy Shield. Its undertaking
means that it will continue to apply the Principles to such data for as long
as the organization stores, uses or discloses them, even if it subsequently
leaves the Privacy Shield for any reason. An organization that withdraws
from the Privacy Shield but wants to retain such data must affirm to the
Department on an annual basis its commitment to continue to apply the
Principles or provide “adequate” protection for the information by another
authorized means (for example, using a contract that fully reflects the
requirements of the relevant standard contractual clauses adopted by the
Commissioner); otherwise, the organization must return or delete the
information. An organization that withdraws from the Privacy Shield must
remove from any relevant privacy policy any references to the Privacy
Shield that imply that the organization continues to actively participate in
the Privacy Shield and is entitled to its benefits.

g.

An organization that will cease to exist as a separate legal entity as a result
of a merger or a takeover must notify the Department of this in advance.
The notification should also indicate whether the acquiring entity or the
entity resulting from the merger will (i) continue to be bound by the Privacy
Shield Principles by the operation of law governing the takeover or merger
or (ii) elect to self-certify its adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles or
put in place other safeguards, such as a written agreement that will ensure
adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles. Where neither (i) nor (ii)
applies, any personal data that has been acquired under the Privacy Shield
must be promptly deleted.

h.

When an organization leaves the Privacy Shield for any reason, it must
remove all statements implying that the organization continues to
participate in the Privacy Shield or is entitled to the benefits of the Privacy
Shield. The Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield certification mark, if used, must also
be removed. Any misrepresentation to the general public concerning an
organization’s adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles may be actionable
by the FTC or other relevant government body. Misrepresentations to the

15

Department may be actionable under the False Statements Act (18 U.S.C.
§ 1001).
7.

Verification
a.

Organizations must provide follow up procedures for verifying that the
attestations and assertions they make about their Privacy Shield privacy
practices are true and those privacy practices have been implemented as
represented and in accordance with the Privacy Shield Principles.

b.

To meet the verification requirements of the Recourse, Enforcement and
Liability Principle, an organization must verify such attestations and
assertions either through self-assessment or outside compliance reviews.

c.

Under the self-assessment approach, such verification must indicate that an
organization’s published privacy policy regarding personal information
received from Switzerland is accurate, comprehensive, prominently
displayed, completely implemented and accessible. It must also indicate
that its privacy policy conforms to the Privacy Shield Principles; that
individuals are informed of any in-house arrangements for handling
complaints and of the independent mechanisms through which they may
pursue complaints; that it has in place procedures for training employees in
its implementation, and disciplining them for failure to follow it; and that it
has in place internal procedures for periodically conducting objective
reviews of compliance with the above. A statement verifying the selfassessment must be signed by a corporate officer or other authorized
representative of the organization at least once a year and made available
upon request by individuals or in the context of an investigation or a
complaint about non-compliance.

d.

Where the organization has chosen outside compliance review, such a
review must demonstrate that its privacy policy regarding personal
information received from Switzerland conforms to the Privacy Shield
Principles, that it is being complied with, and that individuals are informed
of the mechanisms through which they may pursue complaints. The
methods of review may include, without limitation, auditing, random
reviews, use of “decoys”, or use of technology tools as appropriate. A
statement verifying that an outside compliance review has been
successfully completed must be signed either by the reviewer or by the
corporate officer or other authorized representative of the organization at
least once a year and made available upon request by individuals or in the
context of an investigation or a complaint about compliance.

e.

Organizations must retain their records on the implementation of their
Privacy Shield privacy practices and make them available upon request in
the context of an investigation or a complaint about non-compliance to the
independent body responsible for investigating complaints or to the agency
with unfair and deceptive practices jurisdiction. Organizations must also

16

respond promptly to inquiries and other requests for information from the
Department relating to the organization’s adherence to the Principles.
8.

Access
a.

The Access Principle in Practice
i.

Under the Privacy Shield Principles, the right of access is
fundamental to privacy protection. In particular, it allows
individuals to verify the accuracy of information held about them.
The Access Principle means that individuals have the right to:
1.

obtain from an organization confirmation of whether or not
the organization is processing personal data relating to
them;3

2.

have communicated to them such data so that they could
verify its accuracy and the lawfulness of the processing; and

3.

have the data corrected, amended or deleted where it is
inaccurate or processed in violation of the Principles.

ii.

Individuals do not have to justify requests for access to their
personal data. In responding to individuals’ access requests,
organizations should first be guided by the concern(s) that led to the
requests in the first place. For example, if an access request is vague
or broad in scope, an organization may engage the individual in a
dialogue so as to better understand the motivation for the request
and to locate responsive information. The organization might
inquire about which part(s) of the organization the individual
interacted with or about the nature of the information or its use that
is the subject of the access request.

iii.

Consistent with the fundamental nature of access, organizations
should always make good faith efforts to provide access. For
example, where certain information needs to be protected and can
be readily separated from other personal information subject to an
access request, the organization should redact the protected
information and make available the other information. If an
organization determines that access should be restricted in any
particular instance, it should provide the individual requesting
access with an explanation of why it has made that determination
and a contact point for any further inquiries.

The organization should answer requests from an individual concerning the purposes of the
processing, the categories of personal data concerned, and the recipients or categories of
recipients to whom the personal data is disclosed.
3

17

b.

Burden or Expense of Providing Access
i.

The right of access to personal data may be restricted in exceptional
circumstances where the legitimate rights of persons other than the
individual would be violated or where the burden or expense of
providing access would be disproportionate to the risks to the
individual’s privacy in the case in question. Expense and burden
are important factors and should be taken into account but they are
not controlling factors in determining whether providing access is
reasonable.

ii.

For example, if the personal information is used for decisions that
will significantly affect the individual (e.g., the denial or grant of
important benefits, such as insurance, a mortgage, or a job), then
consistent with the other provisions of these Supplemental
Principles, the organization would have to disclose that information
even if it is relatively difficult or expensive to provide. If the
personal information requested is not sensitive or not used for
decisions that will significantly affect the individual, but is readily
available and inexpensive to provide, an organization would have
to provide access to such information.

c.

Confidential Commercial Information
i.

Confidential commercial information is information that an
organization has taken steps to protect from disclosure, where
disclosure would help a competitor in the market. Organizations
may deny or limit access to the extent that granting full access
would reveal its own confidential commercial information, such as
marketing inferences or classifications generated by the
organization, or the confidential commercial information of another
that is subject to a contractual obligation of confidentiality.

ii.

Where confidential commercial information can be readily
separated from other personal information subject to an access
request, the organization should redact the confidential commercial
information and make available the non-confidential information.

d.

Organization of Data Bases
i.

Access can be provided in the form of disclosure of the relevant
personal information by an organization to the individual and does
not require access by the individual to an organization’s data base.

ii.

Access needs to be provided only to the extent that an organization
stores the personal information. The Access Principle does not
itself create any obligation to retain, maintain, reorganize, or
restructure personal information files.

18

e.

When Access May be Restricted
i.

As organizations must always make good faith efforts to provide
individuals with access to their personal data, the circumstances in
which organizations may restrict such access are limited, and any
reasons for restricting access must be specific. As under the FADP,
an organization can restrict access to information to the extent that
disclosure is likely to interfere with the safeguarding of important
countervailing public interests, such as national security; defense;
or public security. In addition, where personal information is
processed solely for research or statistical purposes, access may be
denied. Other reasons for denying or limiting access are:

ii.

f.

1.

interference with the execution or enforcement of the law or
with private causes of action, including the prevention,
investigation or detection of offenses or the right to a fair
trial;

2.

disclosure where the legitimate rights or important interests
of others would be violated;

3.

breaching a legal or other professional privilege or
obligation;

4.

prejudicing employee security investigations or grievance
proceedings or in connection with employee succession
planning and corporate re-organizations; or

5.

prejudicing the confidentiality necessary in monitoring,
inspection or regulatory functions connected with sound
management, or in future or ongoing negotiations involving
the organization.

An organization which claims an exception has the burden of
demonstrating its necessity, and the reasons for restricting access
and a contact point for further inquiries should be given to
individuals.

Right to Obtain Confirmation and Charging a Fee to Cover the Costs for
Providing Access
i.

An individual has the right to obtain confirmation of whether or not
this organization has personal data relating to him or her. An
individual also has the right to have communicated to him or her
personal data relating to him or her. An organization may charge a
fee that is not excessive.

ii.

Charging a fee may be justified, for example, where requests for
access are manifestly excessive, in particular because of their
repetitive character.

19

iii.
g.

Repetitious or Vexatious Requests for Access
i.

An organization may set reasonable limits on the number of times
within a given period that access requests from a particular
individual will be met. In setting such limitations, an organization
should consider such factors as the frequency with which
information is updated, the purpose for which the data are used, and
the nature of the information.

h.

Fraudulent Requests for Access
i.

An organization is not required to provide access unless it is
supplied with sufficient information to allow it to confirm the
identity of the person making the request.

i.

Timeframe for Responses
i.

9.

Access may not be refused on cost grounds if the individual offers
to pay the costs.

Organizations should respond to access requests within a reasonable
time period, in a reasonable manner, and in a form that is readily
intelligible to the individual. An organization that provides
information to data subjects at regular intervals may satisfy an
individual access request with its regular disclosure if it would not
constitute an excessive delay.

Human Resources Data
a.

Coverage by the Privacy Shield
i.

Where an organization in Switzerland transfers personal
information about its employees (past or present) collected in the
context of the employment relationship, to a parent, affiliate, or
unaffiliated service provider in the United States participating in the
Privacy Shield, the transfer enjoys the benefits of the Privacy
Shield. In such cases, the collection of the information and its
processing prior to transfer will have been subject to the national
laws of Switzerland, and any conditions for or restrictions on its
transfer according to those laws will have to be respected.

ii.

The Privacy Shield Principles are relevant only when individually
identified or identifiable records are transferred or accessed.
Statistical reporting relying on aggregate employment data and
containing no personal data or the use of anonymized data does not
raise privacy concerns.

b.

Application of the Notice and Choice Principles
i.

A U.S. organization that has received employee information from
Switzerland under the Privacy Shield may disclose it to third parties
20

or use it for different purposes only in accordance with the Notice
and Choice Principles. For example, where an organization intends
to use personal information collected through the employment
relationship for non-employment-related purposes, such as
marketing communications, the U.S. organization must provide the
affected individuals with the requisite choice before doing so, unless
they have already authorized the use of the information for such
purposes. Such use must not be incompatible with the purposes for
which the personal information has been collected or subsequently
authorized by the individual. Moreover, such choices must not be
used to restrict employment opportunities or take any punitive
action against such employees.
ii.

In addition, employers should make reasonable efforts to
accommodate employee privacy preferences. This could include,
for example, restricting access to the personal data, anonymizing
certain data, or assigning codes or pseudonyms when the actual
names are not required for the management purpose at hand.

iii.

To the extent and for the period necessary to avoid prejudicing the
ability of the organization in making promotions, appointments, or
other similar employment decisions, an organization does not need
to offer notice and choice.

c.

Application of the Access Principle
i.

d.

The Supplemental Principle on Access provides guidance on
reasons which may justify denying or limiting access on request in
the human resources context. Of course, employers in Switzerland
must comply with local regulations and ensure that Swiss
employees have access to such information as is required by Swiss
law, regardless of the location of data processing and storage. The
Privacy Shield requires that an organization processing such data in
the United States will cooperate in providing such access either
directly or through the Swiss employer.
Enforcement

i.

In so far as personal information is used only in the context of the
employment relationship, primary responsibility for the data vis-àvis the employee remains with the organization in Switzerland. It
follows that, where Swiss employees make complaints about
violations of their data protection rights and are not satisfied with
the results of internal review, complaint, and appeal procedures (or
any applicable grievance procedures under a contract with a trade
union), they should be directed to the Commissioner or labor
authority in the jurisdiction where the employees work. This
includes cases where the alleged mishandling of their personal
information is the responsibility of the U.S. organization that has
21

received the information from the employer and thus involves an
alleged breach of the Privacy Shield Principles. This will be the
most efficient way to address the often overlapping rights and
obligations imposed by local labor law and labor agreements as well
as data protection law.
ii.

e.

Application of the Accountability for Onward Transfer Principle
i.

10.

A U.S. organization participating in the Privacy Shield that uses
Swiss human resources data transferred from Switzerland in the
context of the employment relationship and that wishes such
transfers to be covered by the Privacy Shield must therefore commit
to cooperate in investigations by and to comply with the advice of
the Commissioner in such cases.

For occasional employment-related operational needs of the Privacy
Shield organization with respect to personal data transferred under
the Privacy Shield, such as the booking of a flight, hotel room, or
insurance coverage, transfers of personal data of a small number of
employees can take place to controllers without application of the
Access Principle or entering into a contract with the third-party
controller, as otherwise required under the Accountability for
Onward Transfer Principle, provided that the Privacy Shield
organization has complied with the Notice and Choice Principles.

Obligatory Contracts for Onward Transfers
a.

Data Processing Contracts
i.

When personal data is transferred from Switzerland to the United
States only for processing purposes, a contract will be required,
regardless of participation by the processor in the Privacy Shield.

ii.

Data controllers in Switzerland are always required to enter into a
contract when a transfer for mere processing is made, whether the
processing operation is carried out inside or outside Switzerland,
and whether or not the processor participates in the Privacy Shield.
The purpose of the contract is to make sure that the processor:
1.

acts only on instructions from the controller;

2.

provides appropriate technical and organizational measures
to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful
destruction or accidental loss, alteration, unauthorized
disclosure or access, and understands whether onward
transfer is allowed; and

3.

taking into account the nature of the processing, assists the
controller in responding to individuals exercising their rights
under the Principles.

22

iii.

b.

Transfers within a Controlled Group of Corporations or Entities
i.

When personal information is transferred between two controllers
within a controlled group of corporations or entities, a contract is
not always required under the Accountability for Onward Transfer
Principle.
Data controllers within a controlled group of
corporations or entities may base such transfers on other
instruments, such as Binding Corporate Rules or other intra-group
instruments (e.g., compliance and control programs), ensuring the
continuity of protection of personal information under the
Principles. In case of such transfers, the Privacy Shield organization
remains responsible for compliance with the Principles.

c.

Transfers between Controllers
i.

11.

Because adequate protection is provided by Privacy Shield
participants, contracts with Privacy Shield participants for mere
processing do not require prior authorization (or such authorization
will be granted automatically by the Commissioner), as would be
required for contracts with recipients not participating in the Privacy
Shield or otherwise not providing adequate protection.

For transfers between controllers, the recipient controller need not
be a Privacy Shield organization or have an independent recourse
mechanism. The Privacy Shield organization must enter into a
contract with the recipient third-party controller that provides for
the same level of protection as is available under the Privacy Shield,
not including the requirement that the third-party controller be a
Privacy Shield organization or have an independent recourse
mechanism, provided it makes available an equivalent mechanism.

Dispute Resolution and Enforcement
a.

The Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle sets out the
requirements for Privacy Shield enforcement. How to meet the
requirements of point (a)(ii) of the Principle is set out in the Supplemental
Principle on Verification. This Supplemental Principle addresses points
(a)(i) and (a)(iii), both of which require independent recourse mechanisms.
These mechanisms may take different forms, but they must meet the
Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle’s requirements.
Organizations satisfy the requirements through the following: (i)
compliance with private sector developed privacy programs that
incorporate the Privacy Shield Principles into their rules and that include
effective enforcement mechanisms of the type described in the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle; (ii) compliance with legal or
regulatory supervisory authorities that provide for handling of individual
complaints and dispute resolution; or (iii) commitment to cooperate with
the Commissioner or its authorized representative.
23

b.

This list is intended to be illustrative and not limiting. The private sector
may design additional mechanisms to provide enforcement, so long as they
meet the requirements of the Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle
and the Supplemental Principles. Please note that the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle’s requirements are additional to the
requirement that self-regulatory efforts must be enforceable under Section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits unfair and
deceptive acts, or another law or regulation prohibiting such acts.

c.

In order to help ensure compliance with their Privacy Shield commitments
and to support the administration of the program, organizations, as well as
their independent recourse mechanisms, must provide information relating
to the Privacy Shield when requested by the Department. In addition,
organizations must respond expeditiously to complaints regarding their
compliance with the Principles referred through the Department by the
Commissioner. The response should address whether the complaint has
merit and, if so, how the organization will rectify the problem. The
Department will protect the confidentiality of information it receives in
accordance with U.S. law.

d.

Recourse Mechanisms
i.

Consumers should be encouraged to raise any complaints they may
have with the relevant organization before proceeding to
independent recourse mechanisms. Organizations must respond to
a consumer within 45 days of receiving a complaint. Whether a
recourse mechanism is independent is a factual question that can be
demonstrated notably by impartiality, transparent composition and
financing, and a proven track record. As required by the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle, the recourse available to
individuals must be readily available and free of charge to
individuals. Dispute resolution bodies should look into each
complaint received from individuals unless they are obviously
unfounded or frivolous. This does not preclude the establishment
of eligibility requirements by the organization operating the
recourse mechanism, but such requirements should be transparent
and justified (for example, to exclude complaints that fall outside
the scope of the program or are for consideration in another forum),
and should not have the effect of undermining the commitment to
look into legitimate complaints. In addition, recourse mechanisms
should provide individuals with full and readily available
information about how the dispute resolution procedure works when
they file a complaint. Such information should include notice about
the mechanism’s privacy practices, in conformity with the Privacy
Shield Principles. They should also cooperate in the development
of tools such as standard complaint forms to facilitate the complaint
resolution process.

24

ii.

Independent recourse mechanisms must include on their public
websites information regarding the Privacy Shield Principles and
the services that they provide under the Privacy Shield. This
information must include: (1) information on or a link to the Privacy
Shield Principles’ requirements for independent recourse
mechanisms; (2) a link to the Department’s Privacy Shield website;
(3) an explanation that their dispute resolution services under the
Privacy Shield are free of charge to individuals; (4) a description of
how a Privacy Shield-related complaint can be filed; (5) the
timeframe in which Privacy Shield-related complaints are
processed; and (6) a description of the range of potential remedies.

iii.

Independent recourse mechanisms must publish an annual report
providing aggregate statistics regarding their dispute resolution
services. The annual report must include: (1) the total number of
Privacy Shield-related complaints received during the reporting
year; (2) the types of complaints received; (3) dispute resolution
quality measures, such as the length of time taken to process
complaints; and (4) the outcomes of the complaints received,
notably the number and types of remedies or sanctions imposed.

iv.

As set forth in Annex I, an arbitration option is available to an
individual to determine, for residual claims, whether a Privacy
Shield organization has violated its obligations under the Principles
as to that individual, and whether any such violation remains fully
or partially unremedied. This option is available only for these
purposes. This option is not available, for example, with respect to
the exceptions to the Principles4 or with respect to an allegation
about the adequacy of the Privacy Shield. Under this arbitration
option, the Privacy Shield Panel (consisting of one or three
arbitrators, as agreed by the parties) has the authority to impose
individual-specific, non-monetary equitable relief (such as access,
correction, deletion, or return of the individual’s data in question)
necessary to remedy the violation of the Principles only with respect
to the individual. Individuals and Privacy Shield organizations will
be able to seek judicial review and enforcement of the arbitral
decisions pursuant to U.S. law under the Federal Arbitration Act.

e.

Remedies and Sanctions
i.

4

The result of any remedies provided by the dispute resolution body
should be that the effects of non-compliance are reversed or
corrected by the organization, insofar as feasible, and that future
processing by the organization will be in conformity with the
Principles and, where appropriate, that processing of the personal
data of the individual who brought the complaint will cease.

Section I.5 of the Principles.
25

Sanctions need to be rigorous enough to ensure compliance by the
organization with the Principles. A range of sanctions of varying
degrees of severity will allow dispute resolution bodies to respond
appropriately to varying degrees of non-compliance. Sanctions
should include both publicity for findings of non-compliance and
the requirement to delete data in certain circumstances.5 Other
sanctions could include suspension and removal of a seal,
compensation for individuals for losses incurred as a result of noncompliance and injunctive awards. Private sector dispute resolution
bodies and self-regulatory bodies must notify failures of Privacy
Shield organizations to comply with their rulings to the
governmental body with applicable jurisdiction or to the courts, as
appropriate, and to notify the Department.
f.

FTC Action
ii.

g.

The FTC has committed to reviewing on a priority basis referrals
alleging non-compliance with the Principles received from: (i)
privacy self-regulatory organizations and other independent dispute
resolution bodies; (ii) the Commissioner; and (iii) the Department,
to determine whether Section 5 of the FTC Act prohibiting unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in commerce has been violated. If the
FTC concludes that it has reason to believe Section 5 has been
violated, it may resolve the matter by seeking an administrative
cease and desist order prohibiting the challenged practices or by
filing a complaint in a federal district court, which if successful
could result in a federal court order to same effect. This includes
false claims of adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles or
participation in the Privacy Shield by organizations, which either
are no longer on the Privacy Shield List or have never self-certified
to the Department. The FTC may obtain civil penalties for
violations of an administrative cease and desist order and may
pursue civil or criminal contempt for violation of a federal court
order. The FTC will notify the Department of any such actions it
takes. The Department encourages other government bodies to
notify it of the final disposition of any such referrals or other rulings
determining adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles.

Persistent Failure to Comply
i.

If an organization persistently fails to comply with the Principles, it
is no longer entitled to benefit from the Privacy Shield.
Organizations that have persistently failed to comply with the

5

Dispute resolution bodies have discretion about the circumstances in which they use these
sanctions. The sensitivity of the data concerned is one factor to be taken into consideration in
deciding whether deletion of data should be required, as is whether an organization has collected,
used, or disclosed information in blatant contravention of the Privacy Shield Principles.
26

Principles will be removed from the Privacy Shield List by the
Department and must return or delete the personal information they
received under the Privacy Shield.
ii.

Persistent failure to comply arises where an organization that has
self-certified to the Department refuses to comply with a final
determination by any privacy self-regulatory, independent dispute
resolution, or government body, or where such a body determines
that an organization frequently fails to comply with the Principles
to the point where its claim to comply is no longer credible. In these
cases, the organization must promptly notify the Department of such
facts. Failure to do so may be actionable under the False Statements
Act (18 U.S.C. § 1001). An organization’s withdrawal from a
private-sector privacy self-regulatory program or independent
dispute resolution mechanism does not relieve it of its obligation to
comply with the Principles and would constitute a persistent failure
to comply.

iii.

The Department will remove an organization from the Privacy
Shield List in response to any notification it receives of persistent
failure to comply, whether it is received from the organization itself,
from a privacy self-regulatory body or another independent dispute
resolution body, or from a government body, but only after first
providing 30 days’ notice and an opportunity to respond to the
organization that has failed to comply. Accordingly, the Privacy
Shield List maintained by the Department will make clear which
organizations are assured and which organizations are no longer
assured of Privacy Shield benefits.

iv.

An organization applying to participate in a self-regulatory body for
the purposes of requalifying for the Privacy Shield must provide that
body with full information about its prior participation in the Privacy
Shield.

27

12.

13.

Choice – Timing of Opt Out
a.

Generally, the purpose of the Choice Principle is to ensure that personal
information is used and disclosed in ways that are consistent with the
individual’s expectations and choices. Accordingly, an individual should
be able to exercise “opt out” choice of having personal information used for
direct marketing at any time subject to reasonable limits established by the
organization, such as giving the organization time to make the opt out
effective. An organization may also require sufficient information to
confirm the identity of the individual requesting the “opt out.” In the United
States, individuals may be able to exercise this option through the use of a
central “opt out” program such as the Direct Marketing Association’s Mail
Preference Service. Organizations that participate in the Direct Marketing
Association’s Mail Preference Service should promote its availability to
consumers who do not wish to receive commercial information. In any
event, an individual should be given a readily available and affordable
mechanism to exercise this option.

b.

Similarly, an organization may use information for certain direct marketing
purposes when it is impracticable to provide the individual with an
opportunity to opt out before using the information, if the organization
promptly gives the individual such opportunity at the same time (and upon
request at any time) to decline (at no cost to the individual) to receive any
further direct marketing communications and the organization complies
with the individual’s wishes.

Travel Information
a.

Airline passenger reservation and other travel information, such as frequent
flyer or hotel reservation information and special handling needs, such as
meals to meet religious requirements or physical assistance, may be
transferred to organizations located outside Switzerland in several different
circumstances. Under Article 6(2) FADP, personal data may be transferred
to a third country “in the absence of legislation that guarantees adequate
protection within the meaning of Article 6(1)” on the condition that (i) it is
necessary to provide the services requested by the consumer or to fulfill the
terms of an agreement, such as a “frequent flyer” agreement; or (ii) it has
been unambiguously consented to by the consumer in the specific case.
U.S. organizations subscribing to the Privacy Shield provide adequate
protection for personal data and may therefore receive data transfers from
Switzerland without meeting these conditions or other conditions set out in
Article 6 FADP. Since the Privacy Shield includes specific rules for
sensitive information, such information (which may need to be collected,
for example, in connection with customers’ needs for physical assistance)
may be included in transfers to Privacy Shield participants. In all cases,
however, the organization transferring the information has to respect the
law in Switzerland, which may inter alia impose special conditions for the
handling of sensitive data.
28

14.

Pharmaceutical and Medical Products
a.

Application of Swiss Laws or the Privacy Shield Principles
i.

b.

Swiss law applies to the collection of the personal data and to any
processing that takes place prior to the transfer to the United States.
The Privacy Shield Principles apply to the data once they have been
transferred to the United States. Data used for pharmaceutical
research and other purposes should be anonymized when
appropriate.
Future Scientific Research

i.

Personal data developed in specific medical or pharmaceutical
research studies often play a valuable role in future scientific
research. Where personal data collected for one research study are
transferred to a U.S. organization in the Privacy Shield, the
organization may use the data for a new scientific research activity
if appropriate notice and choice have been provided in the first
instance. Such notice should provide information about any future
specific uses of the data, such as periodic follow-up, related studies,
or marketing.

ii.

It is understood that not all future uses of the data can be specified,
since a new research use could arise from new insights on the
original data, new medical discoveries and advances, and public
health and regulatory developments. Where appropriate, the notice
should therefore include an explanation that personal data may be
used in future medical and pharmaceutical research activities that
are unanticipated. If the use is not consistent with the general
research purpose(s) for which the personal data were originally
collected, or to which the individual has consented subsequently,
new consent must be obtained.

c.

Withdrawal from a Clinical Trial
i.

d.

Participants may decide or be asked to withdraw from a clinical trial
at any time. Any personal data collected previous to withdrawal
may still be processed along with other data collected as part of the
clinical trial, however, if this was made clear to the participant in
the notice at the time he or she agreed to participate.
Transfers for Regulatory and Supervision Purposes

i.

Pharmaceutical and medical device companies are allowed to
provide personal data from clinical trials conducted in Switzerland
to regulators in the United States for regulatory and supervision
purposes. Similar transfers are allowed to parties other than
regulators, such as company locations and other researchers,
consistent with the Principles of Notice and Choice.
29

“Blinded” Studies

e.
i.

To ensure objectivity in many clinical trials, participants, and often
investigators as well, cannot be given access to information about
which treatment each participant may be receiving. Doing so would
jeopardize the validity of the research study and results.
Participants in such clinical trials (referred to as “blinded” studies)
do not have to be provided access to the data on their treatment
during the trial if this restriction has been explained when the
participant entered the trial and the disclosure of such information
would jeopardize the integrity of the research effort.

ii.

Agreement to participate in the trial under these conditions is a
reasonable forgoing of the right of access. Following the conclusion
of the trial and analysis of the results, participants should have
access to their data if they request it. They should seek it primarily
from the physician or other health care provider from whom they
received treatment within the clinical trial, or secondarily from the
sponsoring organization.

f.

Product Safety and Efficacy Monitoring
i.

g.

A pharmaceutical or medical device company does not have to
apply the Privacy Shield Principles with respect to the Notice,
Choice, Accountability for Onward Transfer, and Access Principles
in its product safety and efficacy monitoring activities, including the
reporting of adverse events and the tracking of patients/subjects
using certain medicines or medical devices, to the extent that
adherence to the Principles interferes with compliance with
regulatory requirements. This is true both with respect to reports
by, for example, health care providers to pharmaceutical and
medical device companies, and with respect to reports by
pharmaceutical and medical device companies to government
agencies like the Food and Drug Administration.
Key-coded Data

i.

Invariably, research data are uniquely key-coded at their origin by
the principal investigator so as not to reveal the identity of individual
data subjects. Pharmaceutical companies sponsoring such research
do not receive the key. The unique key code is held only by the
researcher, so that he or she can identify the research subject under
special circumstances (e.g., if follow-up medical attention is
required). A transfer from Switzerland to the United States of data
coded in this way would not constitute a transfer of personal data
that would be subject to the Privacy Shield Principles.

30

15.

16.

Public Record and Publicly Available Information
a.

An organization must apply the Privacy Shield Principles of Security, Data
Integrity and Purpose Limitation, and Recourse, Enforcement and Liability
to personal data from publicly available sources. These Principles shall
apply also to personal data collected from public records, i.e., those records
kept by government agencies or entities at any level that are open to
consultation by the public in general.

b.

It is not necessary to apply the Notice, Choice, or Accountability for
Onward Transfer Principles to public record information, as long as it is not
combined with non-public record information, and any conditions for
consultation established by the relevant jurisdiction are respected. Also, it
is generally not necessary to apply the Notice, Choice, or Accountability
for Onward Transfer Principles to publicly available information unless the
Swiss transferor indicates that such information is subject to restrictions
that require application of those Principles by the organization for the uses
it intends. Organizations will have no liability for how such information is
used by those obtaining such information from published materials.

c.

Where an organization is found to have intentionally made personal
information public in contravention of the Principles so that it or others may
benefit from these exceptions, it will cease to qualify for the benefits of the
Privacy Shield.

d.

It is not necessary to apply the Access Principle to public record
information as long as it is not combined with other personal information
(apart from small amounts used to index or organize the public record
information); however, any conditions for consultation established by the
relevant jurisdiction are to be respected. In contrast, where public record
information is combined with other non-public record information (other
than as specifically noted above), an organization must provide access to
all such information, assuming it is not subject to other permitted
exceptions.

e.

As with public record information, it is not necessary to provide access to
information that is already publicly available to the public at large, as long
as it is not combined with non-publicly available information.
Organizations that are in the business of selling publicly available
information may charge the organization’s customary fee in responding to
requests for access. Alternatively, individuals may seek access to their
information from the organization that originally compiled the data.

Access Requests by Public Authorities
a.

In order to provide transparency in respect of lawful requests by public
authorities to access personal information, Privacy Shield organizations
may voluntarily issue periodic transparency reports on the number of
requests for personal information they receive by public authorities for law
31

enforcement or national security reasons, to the extent such disclosures are
permissible under applicable law.
b.

The information provided by the Privacy Shield organizations in these
reports together with information that has been released by the intelligence
community, along with other information, can be used to inform the annual
joint review of the functioning of the Privacy Shield in accordance with the
Principles.

c.

Absence of notice in accordance with point (a)(xii) of the Notice Principle
shall not prevent or impair an organization’s ability to respond to any lawful
request.

32

ANNEX I
This Annex I provides the terms under which Privacy Shield organizations are obligated to
arbitrate claims, pursuant to the Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle. The binding
arbitration option described below applies to certain “residual” claims as to data covered by the
Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield. The purpose of this option is to provide a prompt, independent, and
fair mechanism, at the option of individuals, for resolution of claimed violations of the Principles
not resolved by any of the other Privacy Shield mechanisms, if any. At the first annual review1,
the Department of Commerce will work with the Swiss Administration to put in place this
binding arbitration option.
A.

Scope

This arbitration option is available to an individual to determine, for residual claims, whether a
Privacy Shield organization has violated its obligations under the Principles as to that individual,
and whether any such violation remains fully or partially unremedied. This option is available
only for these purposes. This option is not available, for example, with respect to the exceptions
to the Principles2 or with respect to an allegation about the adequacy of the Privacy Shield.
B.

Available Remedies

Under this arbitration option, the Privacy Shield Panel (consisting of one or three arbitrators, as
agreed by the parties) has the authority to impose individual-specific, non-monetary equitable
relief (such as access, correction, deletion, or return of the individual’s data in question)
necessary to remedy the violation of the Principles only with respect to the individual. These are
the only powers of the arbitration panel with respect to remedies. In considering remedies, the
arbitration panel is required to consider other remedies that already have been imposed by other
mechanisms under the Privacy Shield. No damages, costs, fees, or other remedies are available.
Each party bears its own attorney’s fees.
C.

Pre-Arbitration Requirements

An individual who decides to invoke this arbitration option must take the following steps prior to
initiating an arbitration claim: (1) raise the claimed violation directly with the organization and
afford the organization an opportunity to resolve the issue within the timeframe set forth in
Section III.11(d)(i) of the Principles; (2) make use of the independent recourse mechanism under
the Principles, which is at no cost to the individual; and (3) raise the issue through the Federal
Data Protection and Information Commissioner (the “Commissioner”) to the Department of
Commerce and afford the Department of Commerce an opportunity to use best efforts to resolve
the issue within the timeframes set forth in the Letter from the International Trade
Administration of the Department of Commerce, at no cost to the individual.

1

As described in the letter from the International Trade Administration (ITA) of the Department of
Commerce describing the commitments that ITA has made to ensure that the Privacy Shield operates
effectively, including the joint review mechanism of the functioning of the Privacy Shield.
2
Section I.5 of the Principles.

This arbitration option may not be invoked if the individual’s same claimed violation of the
Principles (1) has previously been subject to binding arbitration; (2) was the subject of a final
judgment entered in a court action to which the individual was a party; or (3) was previously
settled by the parties. In addition, this option may not be invoked if the Commissioner (1) has
authority under Sections III.5 or III.9 of the Principles; or (2) has the authority to resolve the
claimed violation directly with the organization. The Commissioner’s authority to resolve the
same claim against a Swiss data controller does not alone preclude invocation of this arbitration
option against a different legal entity not bound by the Commissioner’s authority.
D.

Binding Nature of Decisions

An individual’s decision to invoke this binding arbitration option is entirely voluntary. Arbitral
decisions will be binding on all parties to the arbitration. Once invoked, the individual forgoes
the option to seek relief for the same claimed violation in another forum, except that if nonmonetary equitable relief does not fully remedy the claimed violation, the individual’s invocation
of arbitration will not preclude a claim for damages that is otherwise available in the courts.
E.

Review and Enforcement

Individuals and Privacy Shield organizations will be able to seek judicial review and
enforcement of the arbitral decisions pursuant to U.S. law under the Federal Arbitration Act. 3
Chapter 2 of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) provides that “[a]n arbitration agreement or arbitral
award arising out of a legal relationship, whether contractual or not, which is considered as commercial,
including a transaction, contract, or agreement described in [section 2 of the FAA], falls under the
Convention [on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of June 10, 1958, 21 U.S.T.
2519, T.I.A.S. No. 6997 (“New York Convention”)].” 9 U.S.C. § 202. The FAA further provides that
“[a]n agreement or award arising out of such a relationship which is entirely between citizens of the
United States shall be deemed not to fall under the [New York] Convention unless that relationship
involves property located abroad, envisages performance or enforcement abroad, or has some other
reasonable relation with one or more foreign states.” Id. Under Chapter 2, “any party to the arbitration
may apply to any court having jurisdiction under this chapter for an order confirming the award as against
any other party to the arbitration. The court shall confirm the award unless it finds one of the grounds for
refusal or deferral of recognition or enforcement of the award specified in the said [New York]
Convention.” Id. § 207. Chapter 2 further provides that “[t]he district courts of the United States . . .
shall have original jurisdiction over . . . an action or proceeding [under the New York Convention],
regardless of the amount in controversy.” Id. § 203.
3

Chapter 2 also provides that “Chapter 1 applies to actions and proceedings brought under this chapter to
the extent that chapter is not in conflict with this chapter or the [New York] Convention as ratified by the
United States.” Id. § 208. Chapter 1, in turn, provides that “[a] written provision in . . . a contract
evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out
of such contract or transaction, or the refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement in
writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract, transaction, or
refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity
for the revocation of any contract.” Id. § 2. Chapter 1 further provides that “any party to the arbitration
may apply to the court so specified for an order confirming the award, and thereupon the court must grant
such an order unless the award is vacated, modified, or corrected as prescribed in sections 10 and 11 of
[the FAA].” Id. § 9.

Any such cases must be brought in the federal district court whose territorial coverage includes
the primary place of business of the Privacy Shield organization.
This arbitration option is intended to resolve individual disputes, and arbitral decisions are not
intended to function as persuasive or binding precedent in matters involving other parties,
including in future arbitrations or in Swiss, EU or U.S. courts, or FTC proceedings.
F.

The Arbitration Panel

The parties will select the arbitrators from the list of arbitrators developed under the EU-U.S.
Privacy Shield Framework, as supplemented by a list of arbitrators with European or Swiss
expertise to be selected as discussed below.
Consistent with applicable law, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Swiss Administration
will develop a supplemental list of up to 5 arbitrators, chosen on the basis of independence,
integrity, and expertise. The following shall apply in connection with this process:
Arbitrators:
(1) will remain on the list for a period of 3 years, absent exceptional circumstances or for cause,
renewable for one additional period of 3 years;
(2) shall not be subject to any instructions from, or be affiliated with, either party, or any Privacy
Shield organization, or the U.S., Switzerland, EU, or any EU Member State or any other
governmental authority, public authority, or enforcement authority; and
(3) must be admitted to practice law in the U.S. and be experts in U.S. privacy law, with
expertise in European or Swiss data protection law.
G.

Arbitration Procedures

Consistent with applicable law, the Department of Commerce and the Swiss Administration
agree to adopt the arbitral procedures adopted under the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework,
which includes the following eight considerations, subject to the ninth consideration below:
1. An individual may initiate binding arbitration, subject to the pre-arbitration requirements
provision above, by delivering a “Notice” to the organization. The Notice shall contain a
summary of steps taken under Paragraph C to resolve the claim, a description of the alleged
violation, and, at the choice of the individual, any supporting documents and materials and/or
a discussion of law relating to the alleged claim.
2. Procedures will be developed to ensure that an individual’s same claimed violation does not
receive duplicative remedies or procedures.
3. FTC action may proceed in parallel with arbitration.
4. The location of the arbitration will be the United States, and the individual may choose video
or telephone participation, which will be provided at no cost to the individual. In-person
participation will not be required.
5. The language of the arbitration will be English unless otherwise agreed by the parties. Upon
a reasoned request, and taking into account whether the individual is represented by an
attorney, interpretation at the arbitral hearing as well as translation of arbitral materials will

6.
7.
8.
9.

H.

be provided at no cost to the individual, unless the panel finds that, under the circumstances
of the specific arbitration, this would lead to unjustified or disproportionate costs.
Materials submitted to arbitrators will be treated confidentially and will only be used in
connection with the arbitration.
Individual-specific discovery may be permitted if necessary, and such discovery will be
treated confidentially by the parties and will only be used in connection with the arbitration.
Arbitrations should be completed within 90 days of the delivery of the Notice to the
organization at issue, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
No representative of the U.S., EU, Switzerland or any EU Member State or any other
governmental authority, public authority, or enforcement authority may participate in these
arbitrations, provided, that at the request of a Swiss individual, the Commissioner may
provide assistance in the preparation only of the Notice but the Commissioner may not have
access to discovery or any other materials related to these arbitrations.
Costs

Arbitrators should take reasonable steps to minimize the costs or fees of the arbitrations.
At the annual review, subject to applicable law, the Department of Commerce will take steps to
facilitate the establishment of a fund, substantially similar to or the same as the fund established
with respect to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, into which Privacy Shield organizations
will be required to pay an annual contribution, based in part on the size of the organization,
which will cover the arbitral cost, including arbitrator fees, up to maximum amounts (“caps”), in
consultation with the Swiss Administration. The fund will be managed by a third party, which
will report regularly on the operations of the fund. At subsequent annual reviews, the
Department of Commerce and Swiss Administration will review the operation of the fund,
including the need to adjust the amount of the contributions or of the caps, and will consider,
among other things, the number of arbitrations and the costs and timing of the arbitrations, with
the mutual understanding that there will be no excessive financial burden imposed on Privacy
Shield organizations. Attorney’s fees are not covered by this provision or any fund under this
provision.

ANNEX A:
Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield
Ombudsperson Mechanism

SWISS-U.S. PRIVACY SHIELD OMBUDSPERSON MECHANISM
REGARDING SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE
In recognition of the importance of the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, this
Memorandum sets forth the process for implementing a mechanism, consistent with
Presidential Policy Directive 28 (PPD-28), regarding signals intelligence.
On January 17, 2014, President Obama gave a speech announcing important intelligence
reforms. In that speech, he pointed out that “[o]ur efforts help protect not only our nation, but
our friends and allies as well. Our efforts will only be effective if ordinary citizens in other
countries have confidence that the United States respects their privacy too.” President Obama
announced the issuance of a new presidential directive—PPD-28—to “clearly prescribe what we
do, and do not do, when it comes to our overseas surveillance.”
Section 4(d) of PPD-28 directs the Secretary of State to designate a “Senior Coordinator for
International Information Technology Diplomacy” (Senior Coordinator) “to … serve as a point
of contact for foreign governments who wish to raise concerns regarding signals intelligence
activities conducted by the United States.” As of January 2015, Under Secretary C. Novelli has
served as the Senior Coordinator.
This Memorandum describes a mechanism that the Senior Coordinator will follow to
facilitate the processing of requests relating to national security access to data transmitted from
Switzerland to the United States pursuant to the Privacy Shield, standard contractual clauses
(SCCs), binding corporate rules (BCRs), “Derogations,”1 or “Possible Future Derogations,”2
through established avenues under applicable United States laws and policy, and the response to
those requests.
“Derogations” in this context mean a commercial transfer or transfers that take place on the condition that: (a) the
data subject has given his consent unambiguously to the proposed transfer; or (b) the transfer is necessary for the
performance of a contract between the data subject and the controller or the implementation of precontractual
measures taken in response to the data subject’s request; or (c) the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or
performance of a contract concluded in the interest of the data subject between the controller and a third party; or (d)
the transfer is necessary or legally required on important public interest grounds, or for the establishment, exercise
or defense of legal claims; or (e) the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject; or
(f) the transfer is made from a register which according to laws or regulations is intended to provide information to
the public and which is open to consultation either by the public in general or by any person who can demonstrate
legitimate interest, to the extent that the conditions laid down in law for consultation are fulfilled in the particular
case.
2
“Possible Future Derogations” in this context mean a commercial transfer or transfers that take place on one of the
following conditions, to the extent the condition constitutes lawful grounds for transfers of personal data from
Switzerland to the U.S.: (a) the data subject has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer, after having been
informed of the possible risks of such transfers for the data subject due to the absence of an adequacy decision and
appropriate safeguards; or (b) the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of
other persons, where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent; or (c) in case of a transfer
to a third country or an international organization and none of the other derogations or possible future derogations is
applicable, only if the transfer is not repetitive, concerns only a limited number of data subjects, is necessary for the
purposes of compelling legitimate interests pursued by the controller which are not overridden by the interests or
rights and freedoms of the data subject, and the controller has assessed all the circumstances surrounding the data
transfer and has on the basis of that assessment provided suitable safeguards with regard to the protection of
personal data.
1

1

1. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson. The Senior Coordinator will serve as the Privacy
Shield Ombudsperson and designate additional State Department officials, as appropriate to
assist in her performance of the responsibilities detailed in this memorandum. (Hereinafter,
the Coordinator and any officials performing such duties will be referred to as “Privacy
Shield Ombudsperson.”) The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will work closely with
appropriate officials from other departments and agencies who are responsible for processing
requests in accordance with applicable United States law and policy. The Ombudsperson is
independent from the Intelligence Community. The Ombudsperson reports directly to the
Secretary of State who will ensure that the Ombudsperson carries out its function objectively
and free from improper influence that is liable to have an effect on the response to be
provided.
2. Effective Coordination. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will be able to effectively use
and coordinate with the oversight bodies, described below, in order to ensure that the
Ombudsperson’s response to requests submitted on behalf of Swiss individuals by the Swiss
Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (“FDPIC”) is based on the necessary
information. When the request relates to the compatibility of surveillance with U.S. law, the
Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will be able to cooperate with one of the independent
oversight bodies with investigatory powers.
a. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will work closely with other United States
Government officials, including appropriate independent oversight bodies, to ensure that
completed requests are processed and resolved in accordance with applicable laws and
policies. In particular, the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will be able to coordinate
closely with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of
Justice, and other departments and agencies involved in United States national security as
appropriate, and Inspectors General, Freedom of Information Act Officers, and Civil
Liberties and Privacy Officers.
b. The United States Government will rely on mechanisms for coordinating and overseeing
national security matters across departments and agencies to help ensure that the Privacy
Shield Ombudsperson is able to respond within the meaning of Section 4(e) to completed
requests under Section 3(b).
c. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson may refer matters related to requests to the Privacy
and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for its consideration.
3. Submitting Requests.
a. Individuals seeking review under the Ombudsperson Mechanism will submit requests to
the FDPIC.
b. The FDPIC will ensure, in compliance with the following actions, that each request is
complete before submitting it to the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson:
2

(i)

Verifying the identity of the individual, and that the individual is acting on his/her
own behalf, and not as a representative of a governmental or intergovernmental
organization.
(ii) Ensuring the request is made in writing, and that it contains the following basic
information:
 any information that forms the basis for the request,
 the nature of information or relief sought,
 the United States Government entities believed to be involved, if any, and
 the other measures pursued to obtain the information or relief requested and the
response received through those other measures.
(iii) Verifying that the request pertains to data reasonably believed to have been
transferred from Switzerland to the United States pursuant to the Privacy Shield,
SCCs, BCRs, Derogations, or Possible Future Derogations.
(iv) Making an initial determination that the request is not frivolous, vexatious, or made
in bad faith.
c. To be completed for purposes of further handling by the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson
under this memorandum, the request need not demonstrate that the requester’s data has in
fact been accessed by the United States Government through signal intelligence activities.
4. Commitments to Communicate with FDPIC.
a. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will acknowledge receipt of the request to the FDPIC.
b. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will conduct an initial review to verify that the
request has been completed in conformance with Section 3(b). If the Privacy Shield
Ombudsperson notes any deficiencies or has any questions regarding the completion of
the request, the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will seek to address and resolve those
concerns with the FDPIC.
c. If, to facilitate appropriate processing of the request, the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson
needs more information about the request, or if specific action is needed to be taken by
the individual who originally submitted the request, the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson
will so inform the FDPIC.
d. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will track the status of requests and provide updates
as appropriate to the FDPIC.
e. Once a request has been completed as described in Section 3 of this Memorandum, the
Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will provide in a timely manner an appropriate response to
the FDPIC , subject to the continuing obligation to protect information under applicable
laws and policies. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will provide a response to the
3

FDPIC confirming (i) that the complaint has been properly investigated, and (ii) that the
U.S. law, statutes, executives orders, presidential directives, and agency policies,
providing the limitations and safeguards described in the ODNI letter, have been
complied with, or, in the event of non-compliance, such non-compliance has been
remedied. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will neither confirm nor deny whether the
individual has been the target of surveillance nor will the Privacy Shield Ombudsperson
confirm the specific remedy that was applied. As further explained in Section 5, FOIA
requests will be processed as provided under that statute and applicable regulations.
f. The Privacy Shield Ombudsperson will communicate directly with the FDPIC, who will
in turn be responsible for communicating with the individual submitting the request. If
direct communications are part of one of the underlying processes described below, then
those communications will take place in accordance with existing procedures.
g. Commitments in this Memorandum will not apply to general claims that the Swiss-U.S.
Privacy Shield is inconsistent with Swiss data protection requirements. The
commitments in this Memorandum are made based on the common understanding by the
Swiss government and the U.S. government that given the scope of commitments under
this mechanism, there may be resource constraints that arise, including with respect to
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests. Should the carrying-out of the Privacy
Shield Ombudsperson’s functions exceed reasonable resource constraints and impede the
fulfillment of these commitments, the U.S. government will discuss with the Swiss
government any adjustments that may be appropriate to address the situation.
5. Requests for Information. Requests for access to U. S. government records may be made
and processed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
a. FOIA provides a means for any person to seek access to existing federal agency records,
regardless of the nationality of the requester. This statute is codified in the United States
Code at 5 U.S.C. § 552. The statute, together with additional information about FOIA, is
available at www.FOIA.gov and http://www.justice.gov/oip/foia-resources. Each agency
has a Chief FOIA Officer, and has provided information on its public website about how
to submit a FOIA request to the agency. Agencies have processes for consulting with one
another on FOIA requests that involve records held by another agency.
b. By way of example:
(i)

The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) has established the
ODNI FOIA Portal for the ODNI: http://www.dni.gov/index.php/about-thissite/foia. This portal provides information on submitting a request, checking on the
status of an existing request, and accessing information that has been released and
published by the ODNI under FOIA. The ODNI FOIA Portal includes links to other
FOIA websites for IC elements: http://www.dni.gov/index.php/about-thissite/foia/other-ic-foia-sites.
4

(ii) The Department of Justice’s Office of Information Policy provides comprehensive
information about FOIA: http://www.justice.gov/oip. This includes not only
information about submitting a FOIA request to the Department of Justice, but also
provides guidance to the United States government on interpreting and applying
FOIA requirements.
c. Under FOIA, access to government records is subject to certain enumerated exemptions.
These include limits on access to classified national security information, personal
information of third parties, and information concerning law enforcement investigations,
and are comparable to the limitations imposed by Swiss legal provisions on information
access. These limitations apply equally to Americans and non-Americans.
d. Disputes over the release of records requested pursuant to FOIA can be appealed
administratively and then in federal court. The court is required to make a de novo
determination of whether records are properly withheld, 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(B), and can
compel the government to provide access to records. In some cases courts have
overturned government assertions that information should be withheld as classified.
Although no monetary damages are available, courts can award attorney’s fees.
6. Requests for Further Action. A request alleging violation of law or other misconduct will
be referred to the appropriate U. S. government body, including independent oversight
bodies, with the power to investigate the respective request and address non-compliance as
described below.
a. Inspectors General are statutorily independent; have broad power to conduct
investigations, audits and reviews of programs, including of fraud and abuse or violation
of law; and can recommend corrective actions.
(i)

The Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, statutorily established the Federal
Inspectors General (IG) as independent and objective units within most agencies
whose duties are to combat waste, fraud, and abuse in the programs and operations
of their respective agencies. To this end, each IG is responsible for conducting
audits and investigations relating to the programs and operations of its
agency. Additionally, IGs provide leadership and coordination and recommend
policies for activities designed to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness,
and prevent and detect fraud and abuse, in agency programs and operations.

(ii) Each element of the Intelligence Community has its own Office of the Inspector
General with responsibility for oversight of foreign intelligence activities, among
other matters. A number of Inspector General reports about intelligence programs
have been publicly released.
(iii) By way of example:
5



The Office of the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community (IC IG) was
established pursuant to Section 405 of the Intelligence Authorization Act of Fiscal
Year 2010. The IC IG is responsible for conducting IC-wide audits,
investigations, inspections, and reviews that identify and address systemic risks,
vulnerabilities, and deficiencies that cut across IC agency missions, in order to
positively impact IC-wide economies and efficiencies. The IC IG is authorized to
investigate complaints or information concerning allegations of a violation of law,
rule, regulation, waste, fraud, abuse of authority, or a substantial or specific
danger to public health and safety in connection with ODNI and/or IC intelligence
programs and activities. The IC IG provides information on how to contact the IC
IG directly to submit a report: http://www.dni.gov/index.php/about-thissite/contact-the-ig.



The Office of the Inspector General (OIG) in the U.S. Department of Justice
(DOJ) is a statutorily created independent entity whose mission is to detect and
deter waste, fraud, abuse, and misconduct in DOJ programs and personnel, and to
promote economy and efficiency in those programs. The OIG investigates
alleged violations of criminal and civil laws by DOJ employees and also audits
and inspects DOJ programs. The OIG has jurisdiction over all complaints of
misconduct against Department of Justice employees, including the Federal
Bureau of Investigation; Drug Enforcement Administration; Federal Bureau of
Prisons; U.S. Marshals Service; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives; United States Attorneys Offices; and employees who work in other
Divisions or Offices in the Department of Justice. (The one exception is that
allegations of misconduct by a Department attorney or law enforcement personnel
that relate to the exercise of the Department attorney’s authority to investigate,
litigate, or provide legal advice are the responsibility of the Department’s Office
of Professional Responsibility.) In addition, section 1001 of the USA Patriot Act,
signed into law on October 26, 2001, directs the Inspector General to review
information and receive complaints alleging abuses of civil rights and civil
liberties by Department of Justice employees. The OIG maintains a public
website – https://www.oig.justice.gov – which includes a “Hotline” for submitting
complaints – https://www.oig.justice.gov/hotline/index.htm.

b. Privacy and Civil Liberties offices and entities in the United States Government also have
relevant responsibilities. By way of example:
(i)

Section 803 of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of
2007, codified in the United States Code at 42 U.S.C. § 2000-ee1, establishes
privacy and civil liberties officers at certain departments and agencies (including the
Department of State, Department of Justice, and ODNI). Section 803 specifies that
these privacy and civil liberties officers will serve as the principal advisor to, among
6

other things, ensure that such department, agency, or element has adequate
procedures to address complaints from individuals who allege such department,
agency, or element has violated their privacy or civil liberties.
(ii) The ODNI’s Civil Liberties and Privacy Office (ODNI CLPO) is led by the ODNI
Civil Liberties Protection Officer, a position established by the National Security
Act of 1948, as amended. The duties of the ODNI CLPO include ensuring that the
policies and procedures of the elements of the Intelligence Community include
adequate protections for privacy and civil liberties, and reviewing and investigating
complaints alleging abuse or violation of civil liberties and privacy in ODNI
programs and activities. The ODNI CLPO provides information to the public on its
website, including instructions for how to submit a complaint: www.dni.gov/clpo.
If the ODNI CLPO receives a privacy or civil liberties complaint involving IC
programs and activities, it will coordinate with other IC elements on how that
complaint should be further processed within the IC. Note that the National
Security Agency (NSA) also has a Civil Liberties and Privacy Office, which
provides information about its responsibilities on its website –
https://www.nsa.gov/civil_liberties/. If information indicates that an agency is out
of compliance with privacy requirements (e.g., a requirement under Section 4 of
PPD-28), then agencies have compliance mechanisms to review and remedy the
incident. Agencies are required to report compliance incidents under PPD-28 to the
ODNI.
(iii) The Office of Privacy and Civil Liberties (OPCL) at the Department of Justice
supports the duties and responsibilities of the Department’s Chief Privacy and Civil
Liberties Officer (CPCLO). The principal mission of OPCL is to protect the privacy
and civil liberties of the American people through review, oversight, and
coordination of the Department’s privacy operations. OPCL provides legal advice
and guidance to Departmental components; ensures the Department’s privacy
compliance, including compliance with the Privacy Act of 1974, the privacy
provisions of both the E-Government Act of 2002 and the Federal Information
Security Management Act, as well as administration policy directives issued in
furtherance of those Acts; develops and provides Departmental privacy training;
assists the CPCLO in developing Departmental privacy policy; prepares privacyrelated reporting to the President and Congress; and reviews the information
handling practices of the Department to ensure that such practices are consistent
with the protection of privacy and civil liberties. OPCL provides information to the
public about its responsibilities at http://www.justice.gov/opcl.
(iv) According to 42 U.S.C. § 2000ee et seq., the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight
Board shall continually review (i) the policies and procedures, as well as their
implementation, of the departments, agencies and elements of the executive branch
relating to efforts to protect the Nation from terrorism to ensure that privacy and
civil liberties are protected, and (ii) other actions by the executive branch relating to
7

such efforts to determine whether such actions appropriately protect privacy and
civil liberties and are consistent with governing laws, regulations, and policies
regarding privacy and civil liberties. It shall receive and review reports and other
information from privacy officers and civil liberties officers and, when appropriate,
make recommendations to them regarding their activities. Section 803 of the
Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, codified at
42 U.S.C. § 2000ee-1, directs the privacy and civil liberties officers of eight federal
agencies (including the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Homeland Security,
Director of National Intelligence, and Director of the Central Intelligence Agency),
and any additional agency designated by the Board, to submit periodic reports to the
PCLOB, including the number, nature, and disposition of the complaints received
by the respective agency for alleged violations. The PCLOB’s enabling statute
directs the Board to receive these reports and, when appropriate, make
recommendations to the privacy and civil liberties officers regarding their activities.

8

United States of America

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20580

OFFICE OF CHAIRWOMAN
EDITH RAMIREZ

January 9, 2017

VIA EMAIL
Federal Councillor
Johann N. Schneider-Ammann
Head of the Department of Economic Affairs, Education and Research
Bundeshaus Ost
3003 Bern
Switzerland
Dear Federal Councillor:
I appreciate this opportunity to affirm the Federal Trade Commission’s commitment to
enforce the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, which is modeled on the EU-US Privacy
Shield Framework and replaces the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework. We believe this new
Framework will facilitate continued trade between the United States and Switzerland and
strengthen privacy protections for Swiss consumers.
I have previously explained the FTC’s commitment to enforce the EU-U.S. Privacy
Shield in correspondence to Vĕra Jourová, the European Union’s Commissioner for Justice,
Consumers and Gender Equality,1 and extend these same assurances in connection with the
Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework. In particular, I want to highlight the FTC’s commitment
in four key areas: (1) referral prioritization and investigations; (2) addressing false or deceptive
Privacy Shield membership claims; (3) continued order monitoring; and (4) enhanced
engagement and enforcement cooperation. We provide below detailed information about each of
these, together with relevant background about the FTC’s role in protecting consumer privacy
and enforcing the Safe Harbor programs.2

1

See Letter from Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman, Fed. Trade Comm’n, to Vĕra Jourová, Commissioner for Justice,
Consumers and Gender Equality of the European Commission (July 7, 2016), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/public-statements/2016/07/letter-chairwoman-edith-ramirez-vera-jourova-commissioner-justice
[hereinafter FTC EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Letter].
2
Additional information about FTC privacy enforcement and policy work and U.S. federal and state privacy laws is
provided in the FTC EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Letter, including in Attachment A. In addition, a summary of our
recent privacy and security enforcement actions is available on the FTC’s website at
https://www.ftc.gov/reports/privacy-data-security-update-2015.

I.

Background
A.

FTC Privacy Enforcement and Policy Work

The FTC has broad civil enforcement authority to promote consumer protection and
competition in the commercial sphere. As part of its consumer protection mandate, the FTC
enforces a wide range of laws to protect the privacy and security of consumer data. The primary
law enforced by the FTC, the FTC Act, prohibits “unfair” and “deceptive” acts or practices in or
affecting commerce.3 A representation, omission, or practice is deceptive if it is material and
likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.4 An act or practice is
unfair if it causes, or is likely to cause, substantial injury that is not reasonably avoidable by
consumers or outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition.5 The FTC
also enforces targeted statutes that protect information relating to health, credit, and other
financial matters, as well as children’s online information, and has issued regulations
implementing each of these statutes.
The FTC’s jurisdiction under the FTC Act applies to matters “in or affecting commerce.”
The FTC does not have jurisdiction over criminal law enforcement or national security matters.
Nor can the FTC reach most other governmental actions. In addition, there are exceptions to the
FTC’s jurisdiction over commercial activities, including with respect to banks, airlines, the
business of insurance, and the common carrier activities of telecommunications service
providers.6 The FTC also does not have jurisdiction over most non-profit organizations, but it
does have jurisdiction over sham charities or other non-profits that in actuality operate for
profit. The FTC also has jurisdiction over non-profit organizations that operate for the profit of
their for-profit members, including by providing substantial economic benefits to those
members.7 In some instances, the FTC’s jurisdiction is concurrent with that of other law
enforcement agencies. We have developed strong working relationships with federal and state
authorities and work closely with them to coordinate investigations or make referrals where
appropriate.
Enforcement is the lynchpin of the FTC’s approach to privacy protection. To date, the
FTC has brought over 500 cases protecting the privacy and security of consumer information.
This body of cases covers both offline and online information and includes enforcement actions
against companies large and small, alleging that they failed to properly dispose of sensitive
consumer data, failed to secure consumers’ personal information, deceptively tracked consumers
online, spammed consumers, installed spyware or other malware on consumers’ computers,
violated Do Not Call and other telemarketing rules, and improperly collected and shared
consumer information on mobile devices. The FTC’s enforcement actions – in both the physical
3

15 U.S.C. § 45(a).
See FTC Policy Statement on Deception, appended to Cliffdale Assocs., Inc., 103 F.T.C. 110, 174 (1984),
available at https://www.ftc.gov/public-statements/1983/10/ftc-policy-statement-deception.
5
See 15 U.S.C § 45(n); FTC Policy Statement on Unfairness, appended to Int’l Harvester Co., 104 F.T.C. 949, 1070
(1984), available at https://www.ftc.gov/public-statements/1980/12/ftc-policy-statement-unfairness.
6
The FTC’s longstanding view is that it has jurisdiction over the non-common carrier activities of common carriers.
This issue is currently being litigated.
7
See California Dental Ass’n v. FTC, 526 U.S. 756 (1999).
4

2

and digital worlds – send an important message to companies about the need to protect consumer
privacy.
Our enforcement actions also have a global impact. The FTC Act’s prohibition on unfair
or deceptive acts or practices is not limited to protecting U.S. consumers from U.S. companies,
as it includes those practices that (1) cause or are likely to cause reasonably foreseeable injury in
the United States, or (2) involve material conduct in the United States. Further, the FTC can use
all remedies, including restitution, that are available to protect domestic consumers when
protecting foreign consumers.
Our cases enforcing Section 5 of the FTC Act have protected the privacy of U.S. and
foreign consumers alike. For example, in a case against an information broker, Accusearch, the
FTC alleged that the company’s sale of confidential telephone records to third parties without
consumers’ knowledge or consent was an unfair practice in violation of Section 5 of the FTC
Act. Accusearch sold information relating to both U.S. and foreign consumers.8 The court
granted injunctive relief against Accusearch prohibiting, among other things, the marketing or
sale of consumers’ personal information without written consent, unless it was lawfully obtained
from publicly available information, and ordered disgorgement of almost $200,000.9
Another notable case is our recent action against the Canadian operators of the dating
website AshleyMadison.com, in which we alleged, among other things, that the site operators
failed to take reasonable steps to secure their users’ personal information, resulting in the
unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information about 36 million consumers worldwide.10 This
case not only demonstrates the FTC’s authority to take action to address cross-border privacy
and security law violations but also highlights how effective cooperation with foreign privacy
authorities enhances our ability to protect consumers from harmful privacy and security practices
that have global implications. Our cooperation with the Canadian and Australian privacy
authorities in this case helped us obtain more comprehensive information and investigate the
security practices more efficiently, as well as facilitated our collective efforts to protect
consumers in countries around the world.
In addition to its enforcement work, the FTC has also pursued numerous policy initiatives
aimed at enhancing consumer privacy. The FTC has hosted workshops and issued reports
recommending best practices aimed at improving privacy in the mobile ecosystem; increasing
transparency of the data broker industry; maximizing the benefits of big data while mitigating its
risks, particularly for low-income and underserved consumers; and highlighting the privacy and
security implications of facial recognition and the Internet of Things, among other areas. Most
recently, the FTC’s Fall Technology Series has examined the privacy and security implications
of ransomware, drones, and smart entertainment devices.
8

See Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, Complaint under PIPEDA against Accusearch, Inc., doing
business as Abika.com, https://www.priv.gc.ca/cf-dc/2009/2009_009_0731_e.asp. The Office of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada filed an amicus curiae brief in the appeal of the FTC action and conducted its own
investigation, concluding that Accusearch’s practices also violated Canadian law.
9
See FTC v. Accusearch, Inc., No. 06CV015D (D. Wyo. Dec. 20, 2007), aff’d 570 F.3d 1187 (10th Cir. 2009).
10
See FTC v. Ruby Corp., No. 1:16-cv-02438 (D.D.C. Dec. 14, 2016).

3

B.

Safe Harbor Enforcement

As part of its robust privacy and security enforcement program, the FTC has sought to
protect Swiss and EU consumers by bringing enforcement actions that involved Safe Harbor
violations. The FTC has brought 39 Safe Harbor enforcement actions: 36 alleging false
certification claims, and three cases—against Google, Facebook, and Myspace—involving
alleged violations of Safe Harbor Privacy Principles.11 Ten of these cases involved the U.S.Swiss Safe Harbor.12 These cases demonstrate the enforceability of certifications and the
repercussions for non-compliance. Twenty-year consent orders require Google, Facebook, and
Myspace to implement comprehensive privacy programs that must be reasonably designed to
address privacy risks related to the development and management of new and existing products
and services and to protect the privacy and confidentiality of personal information. The
comprehensive privacy programs mandated under these orders must identify foreseeable material
risks and have controls to address those risks. The companies must also submit to ongoing,
independent assessments of their privacy programs, which must be provided to the FTC. The
orders also prohibit these companies from misrepresenting their privacy practices and their
participation in any privacy or security program. This prohibition would also apply to
companies’ acts and practices under the new EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield
Frameworks. The FTC can enforce these orders by seeking civil penalties. In fact, Google paid
a record $22.5 million civil penalty in 2012 to resolve allegations it had violated its order.
Consequently, these FTC orders help protect over a billion consumers worldwide, hundreds of
millions of whom reside in Europe.
Many of our other Safe Harbor enforcement cases involved organizations that joined the
Safe Harbor program but failed to renew their annual certification while they continued to
represent themselves as current members. As discussed further below, the FTC also commits to
addressing false claims of participation in the Privacy Shield Framework. This strategic
enforcement activity will complement the Department of Commerce’s increased actions to verify
compliance with program requirements for certification and re-certification, its monitoring of
11

See In the Matter of Google, Inc., No. C-4336 (F.T.C. Oct. 13 2011) (decision and order), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2011/03/ftc-charges-deceptive-privacy-practices-googles-rollout-itsbuzz; In the Matter of Facebook, Inc., No. C-4365 (F.T.C. July 27, 2012) (decision and order), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2012/08/ftc-approves-final-settlement-facebook; In the Matter of
Myspace LLC, No. C-4369 (F.T.C. Aug. 30, 2012) (decision and order), available at https://www.ftc.gov/newsevents/press-releases/2012/09/ftc-finalizes-privacy-settlement-myspace.
12
See Press Release, Fed. Trade Comm’n, Thirteen Companies Agree to Settle FTC Charges They Falsely Claimed
to Comply with International Safe Harbor Framework (Aug. 17, 2015), available at https://www.ftc.gov/newsevents/press-releases/2015/08/thirteen-companies-agree-settle-ftc-charges-they-falsely-claimed (Just Bagels
Manufacturing, Inc.; Pinger, Inc.; NAICS Association, LLC; Golf Connect, LLC); Press Release, Fed. Trade
Comm’n, FTC Settles with Two Companies Falsely Claiming to Comply with International Safe Harbor Framework
(April 7, 2015), available at https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2015/04/ftc-settles-two-companiesfalsely-claiming-comply-international (TES Franchising, LLC); Press Release, Fed. Trade Comm’n, FTC Approves
Final Orders Settling Charges of U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Violations Against 14 Companies (June 25, 2014), available
at https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2014/06/ftc-approves-final-orders-settling-charges-us-eu-safeharbor (American Apparel, Inc.; Apperian, Inc.; Level 3 Communications, LLC; DataMotion, Inc.); In the Matter of
Myspace LLC, No. C-4369 (F.T.C. Aug. 30, 2012) (decision and order), available at https://www.ftc.gov/newsevents/press-releases/2012/09/ftc-finalizes-privacy-settlement-myspace.

4

effective compliance, including through the use of questionnaires to Framework participants, and
its increased efforts to identify false Framework membership claims and misuse of any
Framework certification mark.13
II.

Referral Prioritization and Investigations

As we did under the Safe Harbor program, the FTC commits to give priority to Privacy
Shield referrals from the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (“Swiss
DPA”). We will also prioritize referrals of non-compliance with self-regulatory guidelines
relating to the Privacy Shield Framework from privacy self-regulatory organizations and other
independent dispute resolution bodies.
To facilitate referrals under the Framework from Switzerland, the FTC is creating a
standardized referral process and providing guidance to the Swiss DPA on the type of
information that would best assist the FTC in its inquiry into a referral. As part of this effort, the
FTC will designate an agency point of contact for Swiss DPA referrals. It is most useful when
the referring authority has conducted a preliminary inquiry into the alleged violation and can
cooperate with the FTC in an investigation.
Upon receipt of a referral from the Swiss DPA or a self-regulatory organization, the FTC
can take a range of actions to address the issues raised. For example, we may review the
company’s privacy policies, obtain further information directly from the company or from third
parties, follow up with the referring entity, assess whether there is a pattern of violations or
significant number of consumers affected, determine whether the referral implicates issues
within the purview of the Department of Commerce, assess whether consumer and business
education would be helpful, and, as appropriate, initiate an enforcement proceeding.
The FTC also commits to exchange information on referrals with the Swiss DPA,
including the status of referrals, subject to confidentiality laws and restrictions. To the extent
feasible given the number and type of referrals received, the information provided will include
an evaluation of the referred matters, including a description of significant issues raised and any
action taken to address law violations within the jurisdiction of the FTC. The FTC will also
provide feedback to the Swiss DPA on the types of referrals received in order to increase the
effectiveness of efforts to address unlawful conduct. If the Swiss DPA seeks information about
the status of a particular referral for purposes of pursuing its own enforcement proceeding, the
FTC will respond, taking into account the number of referrals under consideration and subject to
confidentiality and other legal requirements.
The FTC will also work closely with the Swiss DPA to provide enforcement assistance.
In appropriate cases, this could include information sharing and investigative assistance pursuant
to the U.S. SAFE WEB Act, which authorizes FTC assistance to foreign law enforcement
agencies when the foreign agency is enforcing laws prohibiting practices that are substantially
13

Letter from Ken Hyatt, Acting Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, International Trade
Administration, to Federal Councillor Johann N. Schneider-Ammann, Head of the Department of Economic Affairs,
Education and Research (Jan. 9, 2017).

5

similar to those prohibited by laws the FTC enforces.14 As part of this assistance, the FTC can
share information obtained in connection with an FTC investigation, issue compulsory process
on behalf of the Swiss DPA conducting its own investigation, and seek oral testimony from
witnesses or defendants in connection with the DPA’s enforcement proceeding, subject to the
requirements of the U.S. SAFE WEB Act. The FTC regularly uses this authority to assist other
authorities around the world in privacy and consumer protection cases.15
In addition to prioritizing Privacy Shield referrals from the Swiss DPA and privacy selfregulatory organizations,16 the FTC commits to investigating possible Framework violations on
its own initiative where appropriate using a range of tools.
For well over a decade, the FTC has maintained a robust program of investigating
privacy and security issues involving commercial organizations. As part of these investigations,
the FTC routinely examined whether the entity at issue was making Safe Harbor representations.
If the entity was making such representations and the investigation revealed apparent violations
of the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles, the FTC included allegations of Safe Harbor violations in
its enforcement actions. We will continue this proactive approach under the new Framework.
Importantly, the FTC conducts many more investigations than ultimately result in public
enforcement actions. Many FTC investigations are closed because staff does not identify an
apparent law violation. Because FTC investigations are non-public and confidential, the closing
of an investigation is often not made public.
The nearly 40 enforcement actions initiated by the FTC involving the U.S.-EU and U.S.Swiss Safe Harbor programs evidence the agency’s commitment to proactive enforcement of
cross-border privacy programs. The FTC will look for potential Framework violations as part of
the privacy and security investigations we undertake on a regular basis.

14

In determining whether to exercise its U.S. SAFE WEB Act authority, the FTC considers, inter alia:
“(A) whether the requesting agency has agreed to provide or will provide reciprocal assistance to the Commission;
(B) whether compliance with the request would prejudice the public interest of the United States; and (C) whether
the requesting agency’s investigation or enforcement proceeding concerns acts or practices that cause or are likely to
cause injury to a significant number of persons.” 15 U.S.C. § 46(j)(3). This authority does not apply to enforcement
of competition laws.
15
In fiscal years 2012-2015, for example, the FTC used its U.S. SAFE WEB Act authority to share information in
response to almost 60 requests from foreign agencies and it issued nearly 60 civil investigative demands (equivalent
to administrative subpoenas) to aid 25 foreign investigations.
16
Although the FTC does not resolve or mediate individual consumer complaints, the FTC affirms that it will
prioritize Privacy Shield referrals from the Swiss DPA. In addition, the FTC uses complaints in its Consumer
Sentinel database, which is accessible by many other law enforcement agencies, to identify trends, determine
enforcement priorities, and identify potential investigative targets. Swiss individuals can use the same complaint
system available to U.S. consumers to submit a complaint to the FTC at www.ftc.gov/complaint. For individual
Privacy Shield complaints, however, it may be most useful for Swiss individuals to submit complaints to the Swiss
DPA or an alternative dispute resolution provider.

6

III.

Addressing False or Deceptive Privacy Shield Membership Claims

As referenced above, the FTC will take action against entities that misrepresent their
participation in the Framework. The FTC will give priority consideration to referrals from the
Department of Commerce regarding organizations that it identifies as improperly holding
themselves out to be current members of the Framework or using any Framework certification
mark without authorization.
In addition, we note that if an organization’s privacy policy promises that it complies
with the Privacy Shield Principles, its failure to make or maintain a registration with the
Department of Commerce likely will not, by itself, excuse the organization from FTC
enforcement of those Framework commitments.
IV.

Order Monitoring

The FTC also affirms its commitment to monitor enforcement orders to ensure
compliance with the Privacy Shield Framework.
We will require compliance with the Framework through a variety of appropriate
injunctive provisions in future FTC Framework orders. This includes prohibiting
misrepresentations regarding the Framework and other privacy programs when these are the
basis for the underlying FTC action.
The FTC’s cases enforcing the original Safe Harbor program are instructive. In the 36
cases involving false or deceptive claims of Safe Harbor certification, each order prohibits the
defendant from misrepresenting its participation in Safe Harbor or any other privacy or security
program and requires the company to make compliance reports available to the FTC. In cases
that involved violations of Safe Harbor Privacy Principles, companies have been required to
implement comprehensive privacy programs and obtain independent third-party assessments of
those programs every other year for twenty years, which they must provide to the FTC.
Violations of the FTC’s administrative orders can lead to civil penalties of up to $40,000
per violation, or $40,000 per day for a continuing violation,17 which, in the case of practices
affecting many consumers, can amount to millions of dollars. Each consent order also has
reporting and compliance provisions. The entities under order must retain documents
demonstrating their compliance for a specified number of years. The orders must also be
disseminated to employees responsible for ensuring order compliance.
The FTC systematically monitors compliance with Safe Harbor orders, as it does with all
of its orders. The FTC takes enforcement of its privacy and data security orders seriously and
brings actions to enforce them when necessary. For example, as noted above, Google paid a
$22.5 million civil penalty to resolve allegations it had violated its FTC order. Importantly, FTC
orders will continue to protect all consumers worldwide who interact with a business, not just
those consumers who have lodged complaints.
17

15 U.S.C. § 45(m); 16 C.F.R. § 1.98.

7

Finally, the FTC will continue to maintain an online list of companies subject to orders
obtained in connection with enforcement of both the Safe Harbor program and the new Privacy
Shield Framework.18 In addition, the Privacy Shield Principles now require companies subject to
an FTC or court order based on non-compliance with the Principles to make public any relevant
Framework-related sections of any compliance or assessment report submitted to the FTC, to the
extent consistent with confidentiality laws and rules.
V.

Engagement With the Swiss DPA and Enforcement Cooperation

The FTC recognizes the important role that the Swiss DPA plays with respect to
Framework compliance, and encourages increased consultation and enforcement cooperation. In
addition to any consultation with the Swiss DPA on referral-specific matters, the FTC commits
to participate in periodic meetings with the Swiss DPA to discuss in general terms how to
improve enforcement cooperation with respect to the Framework. The FTC will also participate
in the annual review of the Framework to discuss its implementation.
The FTC also encourages the development of tools that will enhance enforcement
cooperation with the Swiss DPA, as well as other privacy enforcement authorities around the
world. In particular, the FTC, along with enforcement partners in the European Union and
around the globe, last year launched an alert system within the Global Privacy Enforcement
Network (“GPEN”) to share information about investigations and promote enforcement
coordination. This GPEN Alert tool could be particularly useful in the context of the Privacy
Shield Framework. The FTC and the Swiss DPA could use it to coordinate with respect to the
Framework and other privacy investigations, including as a starting point for sharing information
in order to deliver coordinated and more effective privacy protection for consumers. We look
forward to continuing to work with participating authorities to deploy the GPEN Alert system
more broadly and develop other tools to improve enforcement cooperation in privacy cases,
including those involving the Framework.
***
The FTC is pleased to affirm its commitment to enforcing the new Privacy Shield
Framework. We also look forward to continuing engagement with our Swiss colleagues as we
work together to protect consumer privacy.
Sincerely,

Edith Ramirez
Chairwoman

18

See FTC, Business Center, Legal Resources, https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/legalresources?type=case&field_consumer_protection_topics_tid=251.

8

