Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

GOVERNMENT NOTICE NO. 112 published on 7/2/2020

THE ELECTRONIC AND POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS ACT,
(CAP. 306)

_______

REGULATIONS
_______
(Made under section 165)

________
THE ELECTRONIC AND POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS
(SIM CARD REGISTRATION) REGULATIONS, 2020

ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
Regulation

Title
PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS

1.
2.
3.

Citation.
Application.
Interpretation.
PART II
REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION OF SIM CARDS

4.
5.
6.
7.

Obligation to register SIM card.
Procedure for Registration of SIM Cards.
Right to obtain and use additional information.
Submission of other information.
PART III
ACTIVATION AND DEACTIVATION OF SIM CARDS

8.

Active SIM Cards.
PART IV
SALE OF SIM CARDS BY DEALER OR AGENT

9.

Use of distributor, dealer or agent.

1

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

10.
11.

Requirements for distributor, dealer or agent.
Submission of quarterly reports by licensee.
PART V
CHANGE OF INFORMATION OR OWNERSHIP

12.
13.
14.
15.

Change of information and ownership to be reported.
Duty to report loss of SIM card.
Replacement of SIM card.
SIM swap information.
PART VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS

16.
17.
18.
19
20
21.
22.

Requirement on inspection of agent.
Fraud prevention.
Limitation on ownership of number of SIM Cards.
Transitional relating to ownership of more than one
registered SM Card
Offence on misuse of information.
Penalty.
Revocation.

2

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

GOVERNMENT NOTICE NO. 112 published on 7/2/2020

THE ELECTRONIC AND POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS ACT,
(CAP. 306)

_______

REGULATIONS
_______
(Made under section 165)

________
THE ELECTRONIC AND POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS
(SIM CARD REGISTRATION) REGULATIONS, 2020

PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Citation

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Electronic and
Postal Communications (SIM Card Registration) Regulations, 2020.

Application

2.-(1) These Regulations shall apply to all users of SIM
Cards in the United Republic of Tanzania.
(2) Without prejudice to generality of sub-regulation (1),
these Regulations shall not apply to users of SIM Cards issued by
foreign mobile network service providers roaming on the network
of a licensee.

Interpretation

3. In these Regulations unless the context otherwise
requires:
“Act” means the Electronic and Postal Communications Act;
“Authority” means the Tanzania Communications Regulatory
Authority established under the Tanzania Communications
Regulatory Authority Act;
“activation” means causing a SIM Card to function on a mobile
network system;
“active SIM Card” means a SIM Card that is functioning on a
mobile network system;
“batch of SIM Card” means a group of SIM Cards registered at the
same time for electronic communications and requiring a
single representative’s NIDA identity with a single
biometric verification excluding additional SIM Cards;

Cap. 306

Cap. 172

3

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

Cap. 356

“categories of biometric SIM Card registration” includes a
company, diplomat, individual, institution, foreigner, minor,
refugees, visitor or any other categories as may be
determined by the Authority from time to time;
“company biometric SIM Card registration category” means
biometric registration of SIM Cards to be used solely by
company;
“consumer” means any person who uses electronic communications
or postal product or services;
“customer” means any person who obtains or seeks to obtain
services of any kind from a person undertaking
activities pursuant to these Regulations and includes
subscribers;
“contract of services” means an agreement entered into between a
licencee and a customer for the provision of the licensed
services to the customer;
“dealer” means a person who carry out trade, business or industry in
which electronic communications equipment are
assembled, manufactured, imported, bought, sold,
hired or exchanged;
“diplomat” means a person who is in a diplomatic mission to the
United Republic as recognised under the
Diplomatic and Consular Immunity and
Privileges Act;
“diplomat SIM Card registration category” means biometric
registration of SIM Cards to be used solely by
diplomats;
“diplomatic institution” means a diplomatic accredited international
institution to the United Republic;
“diplomatic institution SIM Card registration category” means
biometric registration of SIM Cards to be used
solely by Diplomatic institutions;
“foreigner” means a non-citizen who is not a diplomat staying in the
country for a period of more than six (6) months;
“foreigner biometric SIM Card registration category” means
biometric registration of SIM Cards to be used
solely by foreigners;
“Global System for Mobile Communications Association” which is
also known by its acronym as “GSMA” means an
international association of service providers of

4

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

Global Mobile Communication Systems devoted
to supporting, standardising, deployment and
promotion of these communications systems;
“guardian” means a person who has a charge or control over a child
or a person appointed by deed, will or order of the
court vested with a duty of taking care and
managing the property and rights of the child;
Cap 54

“Immigration Department” means the department established under
the Immigration Act;
“individual biometric SIM Card registration category” means
biometric registration of SIM Cards to be used
solely by a customer for personal use;
“institution” means a government or non-government institution
which operates within the United Republic;
“institution biometric SIM Card registration category” means
biometric registration of SIM Cards to be used
solely by institution;
“Integrated Circuit Card Identifier” means a unique serial number
that is printed and stored in the SIM Card of a
subscriber, and is an internationally standardised
way of identifying a SIM;
“International Mobile Equipment Identity” which is also known by
its acronym as “IMEI” means is a unique code
used to identify an individual mobile telephone in
Global Systems for Mobile Communication
networks;
“International Mobile Subscriber Identity” which is also known by
its acronym as “IMSI” means a unique code used
to identify a subscriber on Global System for
Mobile Communications network;
“licensee” means an entity licensed by the Authority to provide and
facilitate provision of electronic communication services,
also known as an operator or service provider;
“machine to machine communications” means a direct
communication between devices to exchange information

5

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

and perform actions without the manual assistance of
humans;
“minor” means a child below the age of eighteen years and above
the age of twelve years;
“minor biometric SIM Card registration category” means biometric
registration of SIM Cards to be used solely by a
minor;
“mobile communication device” means a device used for mobile
communications services including devices which
support data services in the mobile networks;
“Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network” which is
also known by its acronym as “MSISDN” means a number or
telephone number that uniquely identifies a subscription in the
service providers’ network;
“NIDA” is an acronym of the National Identification Authority;
“NIDA ID” means an Identity Card or National Identification
Number which is also known by its acronym as “NIN”
issued by the National Identification Authority;
“PIN” is an acronym of Personal Identification Number;
“refugee biometric SIM Card registration category” means
biometric registration of SIM Cards to be used
solely by a refugee;
“subscriber” means a person or an organization which subscribes
services from mobile telecommunication service
providers;
“SIM Card” means Subscriber Identity Module which is an
independent electronically activated device designed for use
in conjunction with a mobile telephone to enable the user of
the mobile telephone to transmit and receive indirect
communications by providing access to telecommunications
systems and enabling such telecommunications system
identify the particular Subscriber Identity Module and its
installed information;
“visitor” means a non-citizen who is not a diplomat and intends to
stay in the United Republic for a period of not more than four (4)
months; and
“visitor biometric SIM Card registration category” means biometric

6

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

registration

of SIM Cards to be used solely by a visitor.

PART II
REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION OF SIM CARDS
Obligation to
register SIM Card

4.-(1) Any person who owns, controls or intends to use a
detachable SIM Card, built-in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM
enabled mobile communication equipment or device shall(a) register biometrically the SIM Card or built in SIM
Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication equipment or device with the respective
licensee or authorized distributor, agent or dealer in
manner set out in these Regulations;
(b) ensure that PIN of his SIM Card is not shared with any
other person; and
(c) notify the service provider on the change of user or
usage for each SIM Card under his possession.
(2) Any person who sells or in any other manner provides
detachable SIM Card or built-in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM
enabled mobile communication equipment or device to any
customer shall(a) register customers using procedures as prescribed in
these Regulations; and
(b) keep record of the customers details in the database as
retrieved electronically from NIDA.
(3) Every licensee shall ensure(a) connectivity to NIDA is available and working all the
time;
(b) connectivity to the Authority’s central SIM Card
registration database is available and working all the
time;
(c) NIDA verified SIM Card registration details are
submitted to the Authority’s Central SIM Card
registration database automatically during registration
process; and
(d) replacement of a damaged SIM Card upon verification
of original registration and ownership through
biometric verification.
(4) A person shall not register any SIM Card using other
person’s National Identity Card except as specified in these
Regulations.

7

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)
Procedure for
Registration of
SIM Cards

5.-(1) The procedure for registration of SIM Cards to
different categories shall be as follows(a) where a customer is an individual, SIM Card shall be
registered under an individual biometric SIM Card
registration category in the following manner(i) individual shall present to the service
provider NIDA identity or number;
(ii) service provider shall conduct online or
electronic fingerprint verification of an
individual with NIDA for biometric SIM
Card registration;
(iii) service provider shall keep subscriber’s
records as per details electronically
retrieved from NIDA; and
(iv) registered SIM Card shall bear the name of
the individual;
(b) where a customer is a company, SIM Card shall be
registered under company biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the following
manner(i) the company shall be required to present
valid certified copies of Taxpayer
Identification Number (TIN) Certificate,
Business License and incorporation,
compliance or registration Certificate;
(ii) the company representative shall present to
the service provider his NIDA identity;
(iii) service provider shall conduct fingerprint
verification of a company representative
with NIDA once for a batch of SIM Cards
for biometric SIM Card registration;
(iv) service provider shall keep the details of the
company and company’s representative;
(v) registered SIM Card shall bear the name of
the company; and

8

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

(vi) a company shall notify the service provider
on change of company representative for
the service provider to register a new
representative in accordance with these
Regulations;
(c) where a customer is a company employee, SIM Card
shall be registered under company Biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the following
manner(i) a company shall be required to present
valid certified copies of Taxpayer
Identification Number (TIN) Certificate,
Business License and Incorporation,
compliance or registration Certificate;
(ii) a company employee who is entitled to use
the SIM Card shall be required to present to
the service provider his NIDA identity;
(iii) service provider shall conduct fingerprint
verification of company employee with
NIDA for biometric SIM Card registration;
(iv) service provider shall keep the details of the
company and the employee;
(v) registered SIM Card shall bear the name of
the employee; and
(vi) a company shall notify the service provider
on change of ownership of SIM Card for
the service provider to re-register the new
employee in accordance with these
Regulations;
(d) where a customer is an institution, SIM Card shall be
registered under institution biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the following
manner(i) the institution representative shall be
required to present introduction letter of the
respective institution;
(ii) the institution representative shall be
required to present to the service provider
his NIDA identity;
(iii) service provider shall conduct fingerprint

9

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

verification of the institution representative
with NIDA once for a batch of SIM Cards
for biometric registration;
(iv) the service provider shall keep details of
the institution and of the representative; and
(v) registered SIM Card shall be the name of
institution;
(e) where a customer is a minor, SIM Card shall be
registered under minor biometric SIM Card registration
category in the following manner(i) the parent or guardian shall be required to
present minor’s certified copy of birth
certificate or adoption document or valid
passport with valid visa and minor portrait
photo;
(ii) for a minor who is a national or foreigner,
his parent or guardian shall be required to
present NIDA identity and service provider
shall conduct fingerprint verification of the
parent or guardian with NIDA for biometric
SIM Card registration;
(iii) for a minor who is a visitor, his parent or
guardian shall be required to present a valid
passport with valid visa and service
provider
shall
conduct
fingerprint
verification of the parent or guardian with
NIDA or Immigration Department for
biometric SIM Card registration;
(iv) for a minor who is a diplomat, his parent or
guardian shall be required to present a valid
diplomatic passport and diplomatic ID for
SIM Card registration;
(v) for a minor who is a refugee, his parent or
guardian shall be required to present
Refugees identity issued by NIDA and the
service provider shall conduct fingerprint
verification with NIDA for biometric SIM
Card registration;
(vi) the
service
provider
shall
keep
electronically the details of the minor and
parent or guardian;
(vii) registered SIM Card shall bear the name of
a minor;
(viii) after attaining the majority age, the minor

10

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

shall be required to re-register using his
NIDA identity;
(ix) service providers shall notify the minor
three (3) months before attaining the
majority age and shall give three (3)
months grace period for re-registration; and
(x) in the event where the minor fail to appear
for re-registration within the period of three
months after attaining the majority age, the
service provider shall deactivate the SIM
Card from its network;
(xi)
(f) where a customer is a visitor, SIM Card shall be
registered under visitor biometric SIM Card registration
category at customer centres, service providers’ shops
or agents’ shops in the following manner(i)
visitors shall be required to present
certified copies of valid passports with
valid visa;
(ii)
visa exempt visitors shall be required to
present a certified copy of valid
passport;
(iii)
service
provider
shall
conduct
fingerprint verification of visitors with
NIDA or Immigration Department for
biometric SIM Card registration;
(iv)
service provider shall keep the details
of the visitors; and
(v)
registered SIM Card shall bear the
name of the visitor;
(g) where a customer is a foreigner, SIM Card shall be
registered under foreigner biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the following
manner(i) foreigners shall be required to present
NIDA identity;
(ii) service provider shall conduct fingerprint
verification of a foreigner with NIDA for
biometric SIM Card registration;
(iii) the service provider shall keep the details of
the foreigner; and
(iv) registered SIM Card shall bear the name of
the foreigner;

11

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

(h) where a customer is a refugee, SIM Card shall be
registered under refugee biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the following
manner(i)
refugees shall be required to present
NIDA identity;
(ii)
service
provider
shall
conduct
fingerprint verification of a refugee
with NIDA for biometric SIM Card
registration;
(iii)
the service provider shall keep details
of the refugee; and
(iv)
registered SIM Card shall bear the
name of the refugee;
(i) where a customer is a diplomat, SIM Card shall be
registered under diplomat biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the following
manner(i)
the diplomat shall be required to
present his certified copies of valid
passport and valid diplomatic identity
for SIM Card registration;
(ii)
no fingerprint shall be taken during
SIM Card registration;
(iii)
the service provider shall keep the
details of the diplomat; and
(iv)
registered SIM Card shall bear the
name of the diplomat; and
(j) where a customer is a diplomatic institution, SIM Card
shall be registered under diplomatic institution
biometric SIM Card registration category at customer
centres, service providers’ shops or agents’ shops in the
following manner(i)
the diplomatic institution shall be
required to present introduction letters
from the institution and from the
Ministry responsible of foreign affairs;
(ii)
the diplomatic institution representative
shall be required to present certified
copies of valid passport and valid
diplomatic identity for a batch of SIM
Cards registration;

12

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

(iii)

Cap. 37

no fingerprint shall be taken during
SIM Card registration;
(iv)
the service provider shall keep details
of the diplomatic institution and the
representative; and
(v)
registered SIM Card shall bear the
name of the diplomatic institution.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (h), and subject to section
4(3) and (4) of the Refugees Act, the word “refugee” means a
person who(a) is outside the country of his nationality or if he has no
nationality, the country of his former habitual residence,
because he has or had well-founded fear of persecution by
reason of his race, religion, nationality, membership of
particular social group or political opinion and is unable or,
because of such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the
protection of the government of the country of his
nationality, or, if he has no nationality to return to the
country of his former habitual residence;
(b) owing to external aggression, occupation, foreign
domination or events seriously disturbing public order in
either part or the whole of his country of origin or
nationality, is compelled to leave his place of habitual
residence in order to seek refuge in another place outside
his country of origin or nationality; or
(c) belongs to a group of persons which by Notice in the
Gazette has been declared to be refugees for the reasons set
out in paragraph (i) and (ii) above
(3) Where a SIM Card is used or intended to be used by
machines and other Electronic Communication Equipment, such
SIM Card shall be registered under company biometric SIM Card
registration category at customer centres, service providers’ shops
or agents’ shops.
(4) The procedures for registration under sub regulation (2)
shall be as prescribed under sub-regulation (1)(b).
(5) In circumstances, where machines and other Electronic
Communication Equipment is owned by an Individual, registration
of SIM Card shall be under individual biometric SIM Card
registration category as prescribed under sub-regulation (1) (a).
(6) In case of a batch of SIM Cards under sub-regulation (4)

13

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

finger print verification shall be conducted once by service provider
regarding such a batch.
(7) where a customer has a defaced fingerprint or has no
fingers the procedure for SIM Card registration shall be in the
following manner: (a) the customer shall be required to present his
NIDA identity for SIM Card registration;
(b) the service provider shall request NIDA to
provide clearance to customer for defaced
method of SIM Card registration;
(c) upon clearance, NIDA shall enable multiple
question verification option for that customer;
(d) the service provider shall apply the multiple
question option to verify the customer and shall
ask questions as prompted from NIDA
database;
(e) upon answering correctly 2/3 (66%) of the
questions, verification shall be considered
successful;
(f) the service provider shall be required to keep
NIDA verified records; and
(g) in the event where NIDA deploys other
verification mechanism, the Authority shall
provide procedures for such verification as
appropriate.
(8) Where customer’s names differ or mismatches with
NIDA identity names, the procedure for SIM Card re-registration
shall be in the following manner(a) the service provider shall base on usage
verifications on airtime recharge, voice services,
data services and mobile money transactions to
verify SIM Card ownership;
(b) the verification referred to under paragraph (a)
shall be done at customer centers, service
providers’ shops or agents’ shops;
(c) upon receipt of verification requested under
paragraph (a), the service provider shall send
notification on registration detail changes through

14

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

Short Message Service within twenty four hours for
customer’s approval;
(d) upon customer’s approval, the service provider
shall effect the change and keep both NIDA and
previous registered records; and
(e) where the service provider has successfully updated
the registration details under this regulations the
mobile money services shall be suspended for
forty-eight hours.
(9) Where a customer whose name is registered by NIDA,
changes the name, the customer shall be required to avail such
changes to NIDA for rectification of such name and the procedure
for re-registration shall be as provided for under sub-regulation (8).
(10) A foreigner, visitor, refugee or diplomat shall not use
NIDA ID designated for Tanzanian Nationals for the purpose of
SIM Card registration
Right to obtain
and use
additional
information

6.-A customer from Government institution or authorized
agent of the Government who requires exemption of biometric SIM
Card registration shall apply the following procedure(a) a customer shall write a letter to the Authority to
obtain approval for fingerprint exemption and shall
provide details for such exception;
(b) a customer shall be required to present his NIDA
identity and the Authority approval to the service
provider for SIM Card registration; and
(c) the service provider shall register SIM Cards as per
the approval of the Authority at customer centers,
service providers’ shops or agents’ shops only.

Submission of
other information

7.- Any person who sells, register or, in any other manner
provides detachable SIM Card or built-in SIM Card mobile
telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment or
device may obtain from the customer any other information related
to SIM Card registration.

PART III
ACTIVATION AND DEACTIVATION OF SIM CARDS
Active SIM
Cards

8.-(1) A licensee shall not activate a SIM Card, built in SIM
Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication
equipment or device on its electronic communication system unless

15

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

the licensee has registered the customer’s details pursuant to these
Regulations.
(2) The details of a registered SIM Card, built in SIM Card
mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment
or device shall be kept active in the licensee’s database after
registration has been verified through NIDA database or as
stipulated in these Regulations.
(3) Any active SIM Card, built in SIM Card mobile
telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment or
device that is not verified through NIDA database or as stipulated in
these Regulations shall be considered as unregistered and
deactivated SIM Card.
(4) A Licensee shall implement a default unlock PIN on a
SIM Card, built in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled
mobile communication equipment or device based on random digits
which may only be changed by SIM Card owner or customer.
(5) A default PIN shall be enabled and user can set the new
PIN as follows(a) insert new SIM in the handset and enter the old PIN
available in the SIM package;
(b) enter a random new PIN and reconfirm on the same
until when is successful;
(c) user shall put their PIN whenever they switch on their
devices or change the mobile communication device;
(d) in case the user enters the wrong PIN ten times
consecutively, the SIM shall block permanently and the
user may report to Mobile Network Operators Call
Centre for assistance.
(6) Where a SIM Card, built in SIM Card mobile telephone
or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment or device is not
used for communication for more than ninety days consecutively
such SIM Card shall be deactivated:
Provided that a licensee shall not deactivate a SIM Card,
built in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication equipment or device where the customer has
notified the licensee in writing that, such SIM Card will remain idle
for more than ninety days consecutively but not exceeding a period
of twelve months from the date of notification.

16

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

(7) A customer whose SIM Card, built in SIM Card
telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment or
device has been deactivated shall resubmit a fresh request for
registration of the same number subject to availability.

Cap.437

(8) A licensee shall establish a mechanism for handling
monetary balances of SIM Card, built in SIM Card mobile
telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment or
device which is activated in accordance with the National Payment
System Act.
(9) A licensee shall submit to the Authority quarterly
reports on deactivated SIM Cards, built in SIM Card mobile
telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment or
device in a format to be determined by the Authority.
PART IV
SALE OF SIM CARDS BY DEALER OR AGENT

Use of
distributor, dealer
or agent

9.-(1) A licensee may use authorized distributor, dealer or
agent in selling or distributing SIM Cards or built-in SIM Card
mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment
or device.
(2) A distributor, dealer or agent who sells and distribute a
detachable SIM card or built-in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM
enabled mobile communication equipment or device shall have a
written evidence of authorisation from the respective licensee.

Requirements for
distributor, dealer
or agent

10. Every licensee shall ensure that authorized distributor,
dealer or agent referred to under sub-regulation 9(2) provides the
following information:
(a) business licence;
(b) Tax Payer Identification Numbers;
(c) physical location which may include street name, house
number or postcode;
(d) mobile phone numbers, email address and any other
means of contact; and
(e) NIDA identity of contact person.

Submission of
quarterly reports
by licensee

11. Every licensee shall, on a quarterly basis, submit to the
Authority a verified list of national-wide authorized distributors,
dealers or agents.

17

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

PART V
CHANGE OF INFORMATION OR OWNERSHIP
Change of
information and
ownership to be
reported

12.-(1) Any change of information submitted for the
purposes of registering a SIM Card, built–in SIM Card mobile
telephone or SIM enabled mobile communication equipment
or device shall, within fifteen days from the date of occurrence
of such change, be registered with a licensee.
(2) Every customer shall report any change of
ownership or possession of a registered SIM card, build-in
SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled communications
equipment or device to the licensee.
(3) The owner of a SIM Card which was previously owned
by another person shall, within fifteen days of owning the SIM
Card, built-in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication device, register the SIM Card.

Duty to report
loss of SIM Card

13. The owner of a registered SIM Card, built-in SIM Card
mobile telephone
or SIM enabled mobile communication
equipment or device shall be obliged to(a) report loss or theft of SIM Card, built-in SIM Card
mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication equipment or device to the Police
station and obtain a loss report or preliminary
investigation report within seven days from the date of
loss, theft or destruction; and
(b) present the loss report or preliminary investigation
report to his service provider when requesting a
replacement of the SIM Card, built-in SIM Card
mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication equipment or device.

Replacement of
SIM Card

14.- (1) A licensee shall replace a lost, stolen, destructed or
damaged SIM Card upon(a) verification of the original registration and ownership
of the SIM Card; and
(b) submission of the destructed or damaged SIM Card,
built-in SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled
mobile communication equipment or device; or

18

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

(c) presentation of loss report from the police station.
(2) A licensee shall ensure that the surrendered destructed
or damaged SIM Cards are kept for a period of not less than twelve
months.
SIM swap
information

Cap. 437

15.- A licensee shall(a) file with the Authority its SIM swap
procedure;
(b) retain SIM swap information;
(c) keep in custody the destructed or damaged
SIM Card, built-in SIM Card mobile
telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication equipment or device;
(d) capture and retain credentials and logs of
swapping agents and of any person
accessing the SIM swap database;
(e) keep the information captured under this
sub regulation in a traceable database for a
period prescribed in the National Payment
Systems Act.
PART VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Requirement on
inspection of
distributor, dealer
or agent

16. Every licensee shall inspect his distributor, dealer, or
agent on monthly basis to ensure compliance to SIM Card
registration requirements and submit quarterly reports to the
Authority.

Fraud prevention

17. In case of fraud, every service provider shall be
required to(a) cooperate in good faith to prevent, whenever
possible, instances of fraudulent or unauthorized
activities during biometric SIM Card registration;
(b) cooperate to identify and pursue action against the
perpetrators of the fraud;
(c) ensure prevailing data protection and privacy laws
applicable to the situation, and any other company
or business laws which may be appropriate are
observed and complied;

19

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

(d) compensate a victim of any material loss suffered
from fraudulent activity associated with biometric
SIM Card registration of which the service provider
failed to identify the responsible customers;
(e) where the National identity is identified to be
involved in fraudulent activities, the licensee shall
notify NIDA; and
(f) upon notification under paragraph (e) the identified
National identity shall be flagged by NIDA for
ninety (90) days to prevent its further use on
fraudulent activities.
Limitation on
ownership of
number of SIM
Cards

18 (1) A person intending to own and use SIM Card, builtin SIM Card mobile telephone or SIM enabled mobile
communication equipment or device shall be allowed to register(a) in the case of an individual(i)
not more than one SIM Card from each licensed
mobile network operator for use on voice, short
message and data services;
(ii)
not more than four SIM Cards from each
licensed mobile network operator for use on
machine to machine communication; and
(b) in the case of company or institution(i)
not more than thirty SIM Cards from each
mobile network operator for use on voice, short
messaging and data services;
(ii)
not more than fifty SIM Cards from each
mobile network operator for use on machine to
machine communication.
(2) The SIM Cards registered for the purposes provided
under sub regulation (1) (a) shall not be used interchangeably.
(3) Notwithstanding sub regulation (1), an individual, a
company or an institution may be allowed to register and own more
than the specified SIM Cards upon submission of written
application and approval from the Authority
(4) Any person who contravenes this regulation, commits
an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine of not less than
five million Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a
term not less than twelve months or to both and shall be
liable to a fine of not less than seventy-five thousand
Tanzanian shillings for every day during which the SIM
Card was used or possessed; and
(b) in the case of a company or institution, to a fine of not

20

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)

less than fifty million Tanzanian shillings and shall be
liable to a fine of not less than one hundred and
seventy-five thousand Tanzanian shillings for every day
during which the SIM Card was used or possessed.
Transitional
relating to
ownership of
more than one
registered SIM
Card

19.-(1) Where(a) an individual owns more than one SIM Cards under one
licensee, the licensee shall notify such person that from
the date of publication of these Regulations up to 30th
June, 2020, he has to choose one among the SIM Cards
that shall remain active;
(b) a company or institution owns more than the required
number of SIM Cards referred to under regulation
18(1)(b) from one licensee, the licensee shall notify
such company or institution that, from the date of
publication of these Regulations up to 30th June, 2020,
such company or institution shall be required to choose
among its SIM Cards owned, the required number that
shall remain active.
(2) Upon the individual, company or institution comply
with the requirement of the notice under sub regulation (1), the
licensee shall deactivate the other SIM Cards.
(3) Where there is a default in terms of sub regulations (1)(a) in the case of the individual, company or institution, the
licensee shall deactivate all the SIM Cards after the
expiry of the specified time;
(b) in the case of default to deactivate SIM Cards owned
by(i)
an individual, the licensee who fails to comply
with, the licensee shall be liable, upon
conviction to a fine of not less than fifty million
shillings;
(ii)
company or institution, the licensee who fails
to comply with, the licensee shall be liable,
upon conviction to a fine of not less than fifty
million Tanzanian shillings.
(4) Where a SIM Card is deactivated under sub regulation
(3)(a),an individual, company or institution which wishes to renew
extra number SIM Cards, shall be required to make new application
to the Authority in the manner prescribed in these Regulations.
(5) Where an application under sub-regulation (4) is
granted, the applicant shall contact the licensee for issuance of such
numbers of SIM Card as requested from the Authority.

21

Electronic and Postal Communications (Sim Card Registration)
GN NO. 112 (contd.)
Offence on
misuse of
information

20. Any licensee, dealer or agent who misuses information
of a customer for SIM Card registration commits an offence and
upon conviction shall be liable to a fine of not less than five million
Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a term not less than twelve
months or to both.

Penalty

21.-(1) Any person who contravenes any provision of these
Regulations which no specific penalty is provided for, commits an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a penalty prescribed
under the Act.
(2) Notwithstanding subregulation (1), where a person
commits an offence under these Regulations, the Director General
of the Authority may, where such person admits in writing,
compound such offence in the manner prescribed in the Act.

Revocation
GN No. 18 of
2018

22. The Electronic and Postal Communication (SIM Card
Registration) Regulations, 2018 are hereby revoked.

Dodoma
6th February,2020

ISACK A. KAMWELWE,
Minister for Works, Transport and
Communications

22

