Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

ISSN 0856 – 034X

7th September, 2012

Supplement No. 33

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION
to the Gazette of the United Republic of Tanzania No. 36 Vol 93 dated 7th September, 2012
Printed by the Government Printer, Dar es Salaam by Order of Government

GOVERNMENT NOTICE NO. 289 published on 07/09/2012
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING ACT
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Regulation
1.
2.

Title
Citation.
Interpretation.
PART II
INFORMATION AND VERIFICATION OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION

3.
4.

(a) Citizens and Residents
Information concerning citizens and residents.
Verification of information concerning citizens and residents.

5.
6.

(b) Foreign Nationals
Information concerning foreign nationals.
Verification of information concerning foreign nationals.
(c) Entities
1

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Information concerning local entities.
Verification of information concerning local entities.
Information concerning foreign entities.
Additional information concerning foreign entities.
Verification of information concerning foreign entities.

12.
13.

(d) Partnerships
Information concerning partnership.
Verification of information concerning partnerships.

14.
15.
16.

(e) Trusts
Information concerning trusts.
Verification of information concerning trusts.
Death of individual or non existence of an individual, entity, partnership
or trust.

17.

PART III
RULES ON IDENTIFICATION
General rules on identification.

18.

Reporting person to maintain correctness of particulars.
PART IV
REPORTING OF SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS, CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS,
CROSS BORDER TRANSPORTATION OF CURRENCY AND
ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER

19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Manner of reporting.
Content of the report.
Establishment of procedures for recognizing and reporting suspicious
transaction.
Reporting of suspicious transactions by reporting persons.
Information to be reported in respect of transactions.
Information to be reported concerning property associated with terrorist
financing and related activities.
2

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

25.
26.
27.

Information to be reported in respect of an account.
Information to be reported in respect of individuals or entities while
conducting transactions.
Period for reporting.
PART V
CUSTOMER DUE DELIGENCE MEASURES

28.

Application of customer due diligence.
PART VI
INTERNAL RULES

29.

Internal rules concerning establishment and verification of identities.
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

Records retention period.
Format and retrieval of records.
Access to information.
FIU to provide feedback.
Guidelines.
FIU to be availed with information.
FIU to maintain statistics.
Imposition of administrative sanctions.
Revocation.
______
SCHEDULE
______

3

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING ACT
(CAP 423)

REGULATIONS
_____
(Made under section 29)
_____
THE ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING REGULATIONS, 2012

PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS

Citation

Interpreta
tion
Cap 423

Cap 245

1.
These Regulations may be cited as the Anti-Money
Laundering Regulations, 2012.
2. In these Regulations unless the context otherwise requires"Act" means the Anti-Money Laundering Act;
‘‘AML’’ means an acronym of Anti Money Laundering;
‘‘AML/CFT’’ means an acronym of Anti Money Laundering and
Combating the Financing of Terrorism;
"business relationship" means an arrangement between a customer and a
reporting person, where the purpose or effect of the arrangement
is to facilitate the carrying out of transactions between the
customer and the reporting person on a one-off, frequent,
habitual or regular basis;
"BRELA" means an acronym for Business Registrations and Licensing
Agency established under the Executive Agency Act;
‘‘CDD’’ means an acronym for Customer Due Diligence;
‘‘CIS’’ means an acronym for Collective Investment Schemes;
‘‘CMSA’’ means an acronym for Capital Market and Securities
Authorities;
‘‘EDD’’ means an acronym for ’’ Enhanced Due Diligence’’
"designated person" means a person appointed by a reporting person
under section 18 of the Act;
‘‘FATF’’ means an acronym for the Financial Action Task Force;
"FIU" means an acronym for Financial Intelligence Unit established
4

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

under section 4 of the Act;
"Guidelines" means Guidelines issued by the FIU under section 6(f) of
the Act;
‘‘KYC’’ means an acronym for Know Your Customer;
‘‘reporting person’’ has the meaning ascribed to it under section 3 of
the Act;
‘‘STR’’ means an acronym for Suspicious Transaction Report;
‘‘TIRA’’ means an acronym for Tanzania Insurance Regulatory
Authority.
PART II
INFORMATION AND VERIFICATION OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION

Informati
on
concernin
g citizens
and
residents

(a) Citizens and Residents
3.-(1) Where a reporting person is dealing with an individual
who is a citizen of, or resident in the United Republic he shall be
required to obtain from such person the following information (a) full names and residential address;
(b) date and place of birth;
(c) in case of a citizen, voters’ registration card or national
identity card or in the absence of such information, a
passport, birth certificate or driving license;
(d) in case of a resident, a passport, travel document, residence
permit or driving license of that person;
(e) an introductory letter from relevant authority such as
employer or government official;
(f) employee identity card with an introductory letter from
employer ;
(g) Tax Identification Number, if such a number has been
issued to that person;
(h) any or all of, telephone numbers, fax number, postal and
e-mail address;
(i) customer residential address including important
landmarks close to the prospective customer's residence;
(j) where the customer is a student(k) an introductory letter from the customer's institution
signed by the head of the institution or a representative of
the head of institution;
5

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(l) the student's identity card;
(m) nature of business activity ;
(n) signature and thumb print;
(o) utility bills, where applicable.
(2) In case a reporting person is aware or ought reasonably to
be aware that the person referred to in sub-regulation (1) does not
have the legal capacity to establish a business relationship or
conclude a single transaction without the assistance of another
person, the reporting person shall, in addition to obtaining the
particulars referred to in sub regulation (1), obtain from the person
rendering assistance(a) full names and residential address;
(b) date and place of birth;
(c) Tax Identification Number, if such a number has been
issued to that person;
(d) any or all of, telephone number, fax number, postal and email
address;
(e) residential address including important landmarks close to
his residence;
(f) nature of business relationship with the person he is
helping; and
(g) signature and thumb print.
(3) Where the reporting person is taking finger prints under
these Regulations, he shall use ink and pad of such quality as to enable
the capturing of thumb prints.
(4) The thumb prints shall be taken in the following
sequence(a) where that person has both hands, right hand thumb shall
be captured;
(b) where that persons has no right hand thumb, then the left
hand thumb shall be captured;
(c) in case that person does not have both thumbs, then the
next available finger shall be used, starting with the right
pointing finger; and
(d) in case that person does not have fingers, the reporting
person may take palm or toes print.
(5) In case that person lacks both hands and feet, then an
exceptional approval from the management of the reporting
person shall be obtained after recording such situation.
6

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(6) Where a reporting person is capable of using electronic
form in capturing or storing finger prints, he shall be allowed.
(7) In determining the verification of identities under this
regulation, the reporting person shall take into account Guidelines for
the verification of identities applicable to the reporting person.
Verificati
on of
informati
on
concerni
ng
citizens
and
residents

4.-(1) A reporting person shall verify the full names, date and
place of birth and Tax Identification Number of an individual
referred to in regulation 3(l)(a), (b) or (c), or 3(2)(a), (b) or (c) by
comparing these particulars with(a)
(b)

an identification document of that person; or
in the case where that person is, for a reason that is
acceptable to the reporting person, unable to produce an
identification document, another document issued to that
person, which, taking into account any Guidelines
concerning the verification of identities which may apply
to that reporting person, is acceptable to the reporting
person and bears-

(i) a photograph of that person;
(ii) that person's full names or initials and surname;
(iii) that person's date and place of birth, and
(c) any of these particulars with information which is obtained
from any other independent source, if it is believed to be
reasonably necessary taking into account any Guidelines
concerning the verification of identities which may apply
to that reporting person.
(2) A reporting person shall verify the Tax Identification
Number referred to in regulation 3(1)(g) by comparing this number
with a document issued by the Tanzania Revenue Authority bearing
such a number and the name of the respective person.
(3) A reporting person shall verify the residential address
referred to in regulation 3(l)(a) or 3(2)(a) by comparing these
particulars with information which may reasonably be expected to
achieve such verification and is obtained by practical means, taking into
account any Guidelines concerning the verification of identities which
may apply to that reporting person.

7

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(p) Foreign nationals
Informati
on
concerni
ng
foreign
nationals

5.-(1) A reporting person shall obtain from, or in respect of,
an individual who is a citizen of another country and is not resident in
the United Republic, that person’s(a) full names and residential address;
(b) date and place of birth;
(c) nationality;
(d) passport;
(e) visa;
(f) Tax Identification Number, if such number has been
issued to that person;
(g) any or all of, telephone number, postal and email address;
and
(h) signature and thumb print.
(2) In case a reporting person is aware or ought reasonably to
be aware that the person referred to in sub-regulation (1) does not
have the legal capacity to establish a business relationship or conclude
a single transaction without the assistance of another person, the
reporting person shall, in addition to obtaining the particulars referred
to in sub regulation (1), obtain from the person rendering assistance(a) full names and residential address;
(b) date and place of birth;
(c) nationality;
(d) passport;
(e) Visa;
(f) Tax Identification Number, if such number has been
issued to that person;
(g) signature and thumb print; and
(h) any or all of, telephone number, postal and email address.

Verification of
informati
on concerning
foreign
nationals

6.-(1) A reporting person shall verify the particulars obtained
in terms of regulation 5(1)(a), (b),(c), (d) and (e) or 5(2)(a),(b),(c), (d)
and (e) from or in respect of an individual who is not a citizen or a
resident in the United Republic by comparing those particulars with
an identification document of that person.
(2) A reporting person shall verify the Tax Identification
8

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

Number obtained in terms of regulation 5(1)(f) and 5(2)(f) from or in
respect of an individual who is not a citizen or a resident in the United
Republic, by comparing those particulars with a document issued by
the Tanzania Revenue Authority bearing such a number.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub regulations (1) and
(2), a reporting person may verify any of the particulars referred to in
sub regulation (1) or (2) with information which is obtained from any
other independent source, if it is believed to be reasonably necessary
taking into account any Guidelines concerning the verification of
identities which may apply to that reporting person.
(4) Where a reporting person doubts the authenticity of a nonresident’s passport or identity document and the person is a
prospective client, the reporting person shall seek advice from(a) the embassy;
(b) a consular officer of the prospective customer’s country;
(c) immigration office.
(5) Where a reporting person doubts the authenticity of a
Visa, the reporting person shall seek advice from the immigration
office.
(c) Entities
Information
concerning
local
entities

7. A reporting person shall obtain from an individual acting
or purporting to act on behalf of a local entity with which it is
establishing a business relationship or concluding a single
transaction(a) the registered name of the entity;
(b) the registered address of the entity;
(c) the trade name under which the entity conducts
business;
(d) a copy of the latest audit report and accounts of the
entity;
(e) latest annual report duly certified by the Chief
Executive Officer of BRELA;
(f) the address from which the entity operates;
(g) for multiple addresses(i) the address of the office seeking to establish a
business relationship or to enter into a single
transaction with the reporting person; and
(ii) the address of its head office;
9

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(h) the full names, date and place of birth and Tax
Identification Number, referred to in regulation 3(1)(a),
(b) and (c) or full names, date and place of birth and
name of the country referred to in regulation 5(1)(a),
(b), (c), as may be applicable, concerning(i) the manager of the entity;
(ii) each individual who purports to be authorized
to establish a business relationship or to enter
into a transaction with the reporting person on
behalf of the entity; and
(iii) the individual, partnership or trust holding 5%
or more of the voting rights at a general meeting
of the entity concerned.
(i) the residential address and contact particulars of(i) the Directors;
(ii) each individual or entity holding 5% or more of
the voting rights at a general meeting of the
entity concerned; and
(iii) each individual who purports to be authorized
to establish a business relationship or to enter
into a transaction with reporting person on
behalf of the entity.
Verificatio
n of
information
concerning
local
entities

8. A reporting person shall verify the particulars obtained in
respect of a local entity in terms of regulation 7 by comparing(a) the registered name, registration number and registered
address referred to in regulation 7(a), (b), (c) with the
most recent Memorandum and Articles of Association
and versions of the Certificate of Incorporation attested
by BRELA;
(b) the trade name and business address referred to in
regulation 7(d) and (f) with information which can
reasonably be expected to achieve such verification and
is obtained by practical means, taking into account any
Guidelines concerning the verification of identities
which may apply to that reporting person;
(c) the particulars referred to in regulation 7(g) and (h) with
information obtained in accordance with regulation 4(1)
10

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(d)

(e)

(f)
(g)

Information
concerning
foreign
entities

6(1), 6(3), (a), (b) and (e) of these Regulations, as may
be applicable;
resolution of the Board of Directors and power of
Attorney granted to its manager, officer or employees to
transact on its behalf;
the Tax Identification Number referred to in subregulation 7(h) with documents issued by the Tanzania
Revenue Authority bearing such number;
extract from the Register issued by the Registrar of
business names; and
any of these particulars with information which is
obtained from any other independent source, if it is
believed to be reasonably necessary taking into account
any Guidelines concerning the verification of identities
which may apply to that reporting person.

9. A reporting person shall obtain from an individual acting
or purporting to act on behalf of the foreign entity with which it is
establishing a business relationship or concluding
a single
transaction(a) the name under which it was incorporated;
(b) the number under which it was incorporated;
(c) the address where it is situated for purposes of its
incorporation;
(d) the name under which it conducts business in the
country where it is incorporated;
(e) the name under which it conducts business in the United
Republic;
(f) the address from which it operates in the country where
it was incorporated, or if it operates from multiple
addresses the address of its head office;
(g) the address from which it operates in the United
Republic, or if it operates from multiple addresses the
address of the office seeking to establish a business
relationship or enter into a single transaction with the
reporting person;
(h) the Tax Identification Number of the entity, if such
number was issued to that entity;
(i) Tanzania Investment Centre Certificate where
applicable;
11

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(j) Compliance Certificates issued by BRELA;
(k) resolution of the Board of Directors and power of
Attorney granted to its manager, officer or employees to
transact on its behalf;
(l) the full names, date and place of birth and Tax
Identification Number referred to in regulation 3(1)(a),
(b) and (g) or full names, date and place of birth and
name of the country, referred to in regulation 5(1)(a),
(b) and (f), as may be applicable, concerning(i)
the manager in respect of its affairs in
the United Republic; and
(ii)
each individual who purports to be
authorized to establish a business
relationship or to enter into a
transaction with the reporting person on
behalf of the foreign entity;
(m) each individual, entity, partnership or trust holding 5%
or more of
the voting rights in the foreign
entity.
(n) any or all of telephone number, fax number, residential,
postal and email address, of(i)
the manager in respect of its affairs in
the United Republic;
(ii)
each individual or entity holding 5% or
more of the voting rights in the entity;
and
(iii)
each individual who purports to be
authorized to establish a business
relationship or to enter into a
transaction with the reporting person on
behalf of the entity.
Additional
information
concerning
foreign
entities

10.-(1) A reporting person who establishes a business
relationship with a foreign entity, shall in addition to the
information obtained in accordance with Regulation 9(a) gather information about the foreign entity to understand
the nature of its business to determine(i) the reputation of the entity;
12

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(ii) the quality of supervision of the entity;
(iii) whether the entity has been subject to money
laundering or terrorist financing investigation or
regulatory action; and
(b) assess the foreign entity’s anti-money laundering and
counter terrorist financing control to determine whether
they are effective.
(2) An officer of a reporting person shall obtain approval
from senior management before establishing a business relationship
with a foreign entity.
Verification of
information
concerning
foreign
entities

11.-(1) A reporting person shall verify the particulars
obtained in respect of a foreign entity by comparing the particulars
with an official document issued by an authority for recording the
incorporation of entities in the country of incorporation of the
foreign entity, as evidence of incorporation.
(2) Notwithstanding the provision of sub-regulation (1), the
reporting person shall, when verifying information concerning the
entity, take into account Guidelines concerning the verification of
identities which may apply to that entity.
(j) Partnership

Informatio
n
concerning
partnership
s

12. A reporting person shall obtain from an individual
acting or purporting to act on behalf of a partnership with which it
is establishing a business relationship or concluding a single
transaction(a) the name of the partnership;
(b) the full names, date and place of birth and Tax
Identification Number, referred to in regulation 3(1)(a),
(b) and (g), full names, date and place of birth, and
name of the country referred to in regulation 5(1)(a),
(b) and (f), registered name, registration number,
registered address, trade name and business address
referred to in regulation 7(a), ( b), (c) and (d), as may
be applicable, concerning(i) every partner;
(ii) the person who exercises executive control over
13

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

the partnership; and
(iii) each individual who purports to be authorized
to establish a business relationship or to enter
into a transaction with the reporting person on
behalf of the partnership.
Verification of
information
concerning
partnerships

13. A reporting person shall verify the particulars obtained
in respect of partnership in terms of regulation 12 by comparing(a) the name of the partnership referred to in regulation
12(a) with the partnership agreement in terms of which
the partnership was formed;
(b) the particulars referred to in regulation 12(b) with
information obtained in accordance with regulations
4(1), 6(1) and (3), 8(a), (b) and (e) or 15(1) (a) and (d)
as may be applicable; and
(c) any of these particulars with information which is
obtained from any other independent source, if it is
believed to be reasonably necessary taking into account
any Guidelines concerning the verification of identities
which may apply to that reporting person.
(k) Trusts

Information
concerning
trusts

14. A reporting person shall obtain from an individual
acting or purporting to act on behalf of a trust with which it is
establishing a business relationship or concluding a single
transaction(a)
the identifying name and number of the trust;
(b)
the address of the Authority where the trust is
registered;
(c)
the Tax Identification Number of the trust, if such a
number
was issued to that trust;
(d)
the full names, date and place of birth, referred to in
regulating 3(1)(a) and (b), full names, date and place
of birth and name of the country, referred to in
regulation 5(1)(a), (b) and (c), registered name,
registration number, registered address, trade name
and business address referred to in regulation 7(a),
(b), (c), (d) and (e);
14

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(e)

name referred to in regulation 12(a) as may be
applicable, concerning(i)
each trustee of the trust; and
(ii)
each individual who purports to be
authorized to establish a business
relationship or to enter into a
transaction with the reporting person on
behalf of the trust;
(f) the full names, date and place of birth, referred to in
regulation 3(1)(a) and (b), full names, date and place of
birth and name of the country, referred to in regulation
5(1)(a), (b) and (c), registered name, registration number,
registered address, trade name and business address
referred to in regulation 7(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e); names,
numbers and addresses referred to in regulation 9(a), (b)
and (c) name referred to in regulation 12(a) as may be
applicable, concerning each beneficiary of the trust
referred to by name in the trust deed or other founding
instrument in terms of which the trust was created;
(g) the full names, date and place of birth, referred to in
regulation 3(1)(a) and (b), full names, date and place of
birth and name of the country, referred to in regulation
5(1)(a), (b) and (c), registered name, registration number,
registered address, trade name and business address
referred to in regulation 7(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e); names,
numbers and addresses referred to in regulation 9(a), (b)
and (c) and name referred to in regulation 12(a) as may be
applicable, concerning the founder of the trust;
(h) the telephone number, fax number, residential postal and
email address of(i) each trustee of the trust;
(ii) each individual who purports to be authorized
to establish a business relationship or to enter
into a transaction with the reporting person on
behalf of the trust;
(iii) each beneficiary of the trust referred to by name
in the trust deed or other founding instrument
establishing the trust; and
(iv) the founder of the trust.

15

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
Verification
of
information
concerning
trusts

Cap. 318

Death of
individual
or non
existence
of an
individual,
entity,
partnership
or trust.

15. A reporting person shall verify the particulars obtained
in respect of a trust in terms of regulation 14 by comparing(a) the name and other particulars referred to in regulation 14(a)
and (f) with the trust deed or other founding instruments
establishing the trust and the particulars referred to in
regulation 14(d), (e) or (f) with information obtained in
accordance with regulation 4(1), 6(1) and (3), 8(a), (b) and
(c) and 13(c) as may be applicable and –
(i) in the case of a trust created in the United
Republic, the authorization given by the
Registration, Insolvency and Trustees Agency
in terms of Trustees Incorporation Act to each
trustee of the trust to act in that capacity; or
(ii) in the case of a trust created outside the United
Republic, an official document which reflects
these particulars issued by an authority in the
country where the trust is created which
administers or oversees laws relating to trusts in
that country;
(b) the address referred to in regulation14(b) with the
authorization given by the Authority to each trustee of the
trust to act in that capacity;
(c) the Tax Identification Number of the trust referred to in
regulation 14(c) with a document issued by the Tanzania
Revenue Authority bearing such a number; and
(d) any of these particulars with information which is obtained
from any other independent source, if it is believed to be
reasonably necessary taking into account any Guidelines
concerning the verification of identities which may apply to
that reporting person.
16. Where an individual, entity, partnership or trust referred
to in this Part dies or ceases to exist, a reporting person shall verify
the particulars referred to in this Part by comparing those particulars
with information which can reasonably be expected to achieve such
verification and is obtained by practical means, taking into account
any Guidelines concerning the verification of identities which may
apply to that reporting person.
16

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

PART III
RULES ON IDENTIFICATION
General
rules on
identificati
on

17. Each reporting person shall maintain identification
procedures that(a) require the satisfactory production of evidence of the
identity of a person before a reporting person establishes
a business relationship with that person;
(b) take into account the suspicion of money laundering or
the financing of terrorism where a prospective customer
of the reporting person is not physically present during
the identification process;
(c) the business relationship or single transaction should not
be continued where the reporting person is unable to
obtain satisfactory evidence of the prospective
customer’s identity;
(d) identify the third person who acts on behalf of the
customer;
(e) allow a reporting person to obtain information on the
purpose and intended nature of a business relationship;
(f) require a reporting person to conduct ongoing due
diligence by scrutinizing transactions undertaken
throughout the course of the business relationship to
ensure that(i) the transactions being conducted are consistent
with the reporting person’s knowledge of the
client;
(ii) the business and risk profile of the customer are
contained; and
(iii) the customer’s source of funds are investigated;
(g) ensure that information collected under the customer
due diligence process is updated.

Maintenance of
correctness
of
particulars

18. A reporting person shall take reasonable steps, taking
into account any Guidelines concerning the verification of identities
which may apply to that reporting person in respect of an existing
business relationship, to maintain the correctness of particulars as
provided under these Regulations.
17

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

PART IV
REPORTING OF SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS, CURRENCY
TRANSACTIONS, CROSS BORDER TRANSPORTATION OF
CURRENCY AND ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER
Manner of
reporting

Content of
the report

19. A report made under sections 4 (2), 17 and 23 of the
Act shall be made in accordance with the format and in such
manner as may be prescribed by the FIU in the Guidelines.
20. A report under section 17 of the Act shall(a) contain a full description of the suspicious
transaction, including the reasons why it is deemed to
be suspicious;
(b) contain action the reporting person has taken in
connection with the suspicious transaction
concerning which the report is made; and
(c) contain copies of supporting documents if available
in respect of the suspicious transaction concerning
which the report is made and the reasons referred to in
paragraph (a).

Establishment of
procedures
for
recognizing
and
reporting
suspicious
transaction

21.-(1) A reporting person shall establish written internal
reporting procedures which, in relation to its relevant business,
shall(a) enable all its directors or partners as the case may be,
all other persons involved in its management and staff
to know to whom they should report any knowledge or
suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing
activities;
(b) designate a Money Laundering Reporting Officer to
whom a report shall be made of any information or
other matter which comes to the attention of the person
handling that business and which in that person’s
opinion give rise to knowledge or suspicion that
18

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

another person is engaged in money laundering and
terrorist financing;
(c) ensure that there is a clear reporting chain under which
suspicious money laundering and terrorist financing
activities are passed to the Money Laundering
Reporting Officer;
(c) require the Money Laundering Reporting Officer to
consider any report in the light of other relevant
information available to him for the purpose of
determining whether or not it gives rise to knowledge
or suspicion of money laundering and terrorist
financing;
(d) ensure that the designated person has reasonable access
to any other information which may be of assistance
to him and which is available to the reporting person;
and
(e) require that the information or other matter contained
in a report is disclosed promptly to the reporting
person where the designated person knows or suspects
that another person is engaged in money laundering
and terrorist financing.
(2) The Money Laundering Reporting Officer appointed
under sub regulation 1(b) shall be a senior officer to be able to
liaise between the Management and other staff on matters related to
money laundering and terrorist financing.
(3) A reporting person shall maintain a register of all
reports made to the Money Laundering Reporting Officer in
pursuance of sub-regulation (1)(f).
(4) The register maintained under sub-regulation (3) shall
contain details of the date on which the report was made, the
person who made the report, the amount and type of currencies
involved and any other information that may help prove or clarify
grounds of suspicion.
Reporting
of suspicious
transactions
by reporting
persons

22.-(1) A reporting person shall pay special attention to all
complex, unusual or large business transactions, currency
transaction reports, cross border currency reports and electronic
funds transfer reports, whether completed or not and to all unusual
patterns of transactions and to insignificant but periodic
19

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

transactions, which have no apparent economic or lawful purpose.
(2) Upon reasonable suspicion that the transaction
described in sub-regulation (1) may constitute or be related to
money laundering or terrorist financing, a reporting person shall
promptly report the suspicious transaction to the FIU.
Information
to be
reported in
respect of
transactions

23. A report made under sections 4(2) and 17 of the Act,
shall contain the following information -

(a) date and time of the transaction, or, in case of a
series
of transactions the period over which the
transactions were conducted;
(b) type of funds or property involved;
(c) amount or value of property involved;
(d) currency in which the transaction was conducted;
(e) method in which the transaction was conducted;
(f) method in which the funds or property were
disposed of;
(g) amount disposed;
(h) currency in which the funds were disposed of;
(i) purpose of the transaction;
(j) names of other institutions or person involved in
the
transaction;
(k) bank account numbers in other institution
involved
in
the transaction;
(l) the name and identifying number of the branch or
office where the transaction was conducted; and
(m) any remarks, comments or explanation which the
person conducting the transaction may have made or
given in relation to the transaction.

20

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
Information
to be
reported
concerning
property
associated
with
terrorist
financing
and related
activities

24.-(1) When a reporting person makes a report
concerning property associated with terrorist financing and related
activities under sections 4(2) and 17 of the Act, the report shall
contain the following information-

(a)

full names of the owner or interested party to the
property;
(b)
the identifying particulars of the owner or interested
party to
the property such as(i) in the case of natural person: passport number,
voters registration card, national identity card,
Tax Identification Number, identity number or
registration number and any other particulars
which can reasonably identify him
(ii) in the case of a legal person: Company
registration number and
certificate of
incorporation;
(c) the address of the owner or interested party to the
property;
and
(d) occupation of the owner or interested party to the
property.
(2) In respect of the property concerning which a report
under sections 4 (2) and 17 of the Act is made, the report shall
contain the following information (a) type of property;
(b) description of the property;
(c) any identifying particulars concerning the property
such
as
registration particulars, unique numbers or other
particulars;
(d) the estimated value of the property; and
21

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(e) the physical address where the property is located.
Information
to be
reported in
respect of an
account

25. If a bank account is involved in the transaction
concerning a report made under section 4(2) and 17 of the Act, the
report shall contain the following information(a)
(b)
where
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
of
(i)

(j)

Information
to be
reported in
respect of
individuals
or entities
while
conducting
transactions

account number;
name and identifying number of the branch or office
the account is held;
type of account;
full names of each account holder;
address of the account holder which includes physical
address;
date on which the account was opened;
status of the account;
date on which the account was closed and the name
the person who gave the instructions to close it;
any previous activity in the preceding six months
which had been considered for reporting in
connection with the account, whether the activity was
reported or not; and
report the number of any previous reports made in
connection with the account.

26. In respect of an individual or entity conducting a
transaction or an individual or an entity on whose behalf the
transaction is conducted, concerning which a report under sections
4(2) and 17 is made, the report shall contain the following
information:

(a) in the case of an individual(i) the person's full names;
(ii) the person's identifying number, if any;
(iii) the copy of identifying document from which
22

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

Period for
reporting

the particulars referred to in sub-paragraphs
(i) and (ii) were obtained;
(iv) the person’s country of residence;
(v) any or all of the person’s residential address,
telephone number, fax number, postal and
email address; and
(vi) occupation;
(b) in the case of an entity (i) the entity’s name and address;
(ii) the entity’s identifying number, if it has
such a number;
(iii) the type of business conducted by the
entity;
(iv) the entity’s country of origin;
(v) the names of individuals with authority to
conduct the transactions on behalf of the
entity.
(c) in respect of an individual or other entity conducting a
transaction on behalf of whom a transaction is made, a
report under sections 4(2) and 17 shall contain the
following information(i) the person's full names and address;
(ii) the person's identifying number, if any;
(iii) the type of identifying document from which
the particulars referred to in paragraphs (a) or
(b) were obtained;
(iv) the person's country of residence;
(v) any or all of the person's residential address,
telephone number, fax number, postal and
email address; and
(vi) the person's occupation.
27. A report made under sections 4(2) and 17 of the Act
shall be submitted to the FIU as soon as possible but not later
than twenty four hours after a reporting person has become
aware or has knowledge of a suspicious transaction.

23

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

PART V
CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE MEASURES
Application
of customer
due diligence

28.-(1) Every reporting person shall apply Customer Due
Diligence measures when(a) establishing a business relationship;
(b) carrying out an occasional transaction;
(c) money laundering or terrorist financing is suspected;
or
(d) veracity or adequacy of documents, data or
information previously obtained for the purposes of
identification or verification is doubted.
(2) A reporting person shall identify and verify the
beneficial owners during the course of establishing a business
relationship or when conducting transactions with its customers.
(3) A reporting person shall identify and verify the
beneficial owners when conducting occasional transactions with
its customers.
(5) Subject to sub-regulation (2) and (3), the reporting
person shall undertake reasonable measures to verify the identity
of the beneficial owner such that the reporting person is satisfied
that it knows who the beneficial owner.
(6) A reporting person shall apply customer due diligence
measures at other appropriate times to existing customers on a
risk sensitivity basis.
(7) When dealing with entities, the reporting person shall
undertake CDD measures to determine the natural persons that
ultimately own or control the legal person or arrangement.
(8) A reporting person shall(a) determine the extent of customer due diligence
measures on a risk sensitivity basis depending on the
type of customer, business relationship, product or
transaction; and
(b) be able to demonstrate to his supervisory authority
that the extent of the measures is appropriate in view
of the risks of money laundering and terrorist
financing.
(9) Notwithstanding the provisions of this regulation,
reporting persons whose requirements are stipulated in the
24

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

Schedule to these Regulations, shall observe the customer due
diligence as stipulated in the Schedule.
PART VI
INTERNAL RULES
Internal
rules
concerning
establishme
nt and
verification
of identities

29. -(1) The internal rules of a reporting person concerning the
establishment and verification of identities shall-

(a) provide for the necessary procedures which shall
cause the required particulars concerning the
identities of the parties to a business relationship or
single transaction to be obtained on each occasion
when a business relationship is established or when
a single transaction is concluded;
(b) provide for steps to be taken by staff members
aimed at verifying particulars concerning the
identities of the parties to a business relationship or
single transaction;
(c) provide for the responsibility of the management
for compliance with the Act, these Regulations and
the internal rules;
(d) allocate
responsibilities
and
accountability
measures to ensure that staff duties concerning the
establishment and verification of identities are
complied with;
(e) provide for disciplinary steps against the relevant
staff members for non-compliance with the Act,
these Regulations and the internal rules;
(f) take into account any Guideline concerning the
verification of identities which may apply to that
reporting person;
(g) provide for the necessary procedures to ensure that
staff members of the reporting person obtain
information of which record shall be kept on each
occasion when a business relationship is established
or a transaction is concluded;
(h) provide for the necessary procedures to ensure that
the accuracy and integrity of those records are
25

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

maintained for the entire period for which they shall
be kept;
(i) provide for the necessary procedures to ensure that
there is unhindered access to information to
authorized persons under the Act and these
Regulations;
(j) provide for the necessary procedures which shall
cause suspicious transactions, currency transaction
reports, cross border transportation of currency
reports, electronic funds transfer reports to be
reported to the FIU without delay;
(k) provide for the necessary procedures to enable staff
to recognize potential suspicious transactions,
currency transactions, cross border transportation of
currency, electronic funds transfers or series of
transactions;
(l) allocate duties, responsibilities and accountability
to staff in a manner that will ensure compliance
with the Act and these Regulations.
(2) Where a reporting person doubts the authenticity of a
non-resident’s passport or identity document and the person is a
prospective customer, the reporting person shall seek advice from(a) the embassy;
(b) a consular officer of the prospective customer’s
country;
(c) immigration office.
(3) Where a reporting person doubts the authenticity of a
Visa, the reporting person shall seek advice from the immigration
office.
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Records
retention
period

30.-(1) A reporting person shall retain records required
by section 16 of the Act for a minimum period of ten years
from the date(a) when all activities relating to a transaction or a
series of linked transactions were completed;
(b) when the business relationship was formally ended;
26

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

or
(c) where the business relationship was not formally
ended but when the last transaction was carried out.
(2) where a reporting person is required by any
enactment to release a record referred to in sub regulation (1)
before the period of ten years lapses, the reporting person
shall retain a copy of the record.
(3) Where a report has been made to the FIU
pursuant
to
the provisions of the Act or the reporting person knows or
believes that a matter is under investigation, that person shall
without prejudice to sub-regulation (1), retain all relevant
records for as long as may be required by the FIU.
(4) For the purpose of this regulation, the question as to
what records may be relevant in the analysis process may be
determined in accordance with the Guidelines.
Format and
retrieval of
records

31.-(l) A reporting person shall ensure that any records
required to be maintained under these Regulations are
retrievable without delay and they can be retrieved in legible
format.
(2) A reporting person may rely on the records of a
third
party
in respect of the details of payments and transactions by
customers,
provided that it is satisfied that the third party is willing and
able to retain and, if asked to produce in legible form, copies
of the records required.

Access to
information

32.-(1). In carrying out its duties under section 6 of the
Act, the FIU shall request in writing, any information from any
reporting person, regulator or law enforcement agency.
(2) Any reporting person, regulator or law enforcement
agency shall, immediately after receiving the request, under subregulation (1), provide such information.
(3) Where a reporting person, regulator or law
enforcement agency fails to comply with the provision of subregulation (2), shall submit in writing reasons to FIU for such
failure.
27

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

FIU to
provide
feedback

33. The FIU shall provide the reporting persons with
feedback which includes(a) acknowledgement of the receipt of suspicious
transactions reports and results of investigation;
(b) whether criminal proceedings have been instituted
in court in relation to a submitted STR;
(c) whether a report was found to relate to a legitimate
transaction; and
(d) information on the decision or results.

Guidelines

34. As required by section 6 of the Act, the FIU shall issue
Guidelines related to (a) the verification of customer identities;
(b) reporting of suspicious transactions;
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

FIU to be
availed with
information

reporting currency transactions;
reporting electronic fund transfer;
reporting cross border currency transportation; and
any other obligations imposed on reporting persons
under the Act.

35.-(1) Law Enforcement Agencies shall on timely basis
provide the following information to FIU(a) acknowledgment of the receipt of the disseminated
reports;
(b) updates of investigation; or
(c) results of investigation undertaken.
(2) For the purposes of enabling the FIU maintain
statistics on matters related to money laundering and terrorist
financing, the Attorney General shall provide information to the
FIU on the number of mutual legal assistance and extradition
requests made or received and the status of the cases on money
laundering and terrorist financing.
(3) The information requested under sub-regulation (2)
shall include28

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

nature of the request;
time the request was made;
time the response was received; and
refusal or granting of assistance requested;
the status of criminal proceedings instituted in
relation to money laundering and the financing of
terrorism;

(f) number of cases related to money laundering and
financing of terrorism including(i) outcome of the cases and the amount of
money involved;

FIU to
maintain
statistics

(ii) amount of property frozen, seized or
confiscated.
36.-(1) The FIU shall maintain comprehensive statistics on
matters relevant for effective and efficient systems for combating
money laundering and terrorist financing in the country.
(2) The statistics under sub-regulation (1) shall include(a) suspicious transaction reports received and
intelligence disseminated;
(b) the reporting person or persons who made the
report;
(c) breakdown of suspicious transactions on antimoney laundering and terrorist financing analyzed
and disseminated by the FIU;
(d) reports filed on domestic or foreign currency
transactions above the limit prescribed by the
Minister;
(e) reports on cross border transportation of currency;
(f) reports on international electronic funds transfers;
(g) money laundering and terrorist financing analysis;
(h) the number of cases and the amounts of property
frozen, seized or confiscated in relation to money
laundering and terrorist financing;
(i) mutual legal assistance and extradition requests
made or received in relation to money laundering and
terrorist financing including (i)
the nature of the request;
29

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

(ii)
(iii)

response times; and
whether the assistance or request
was granted or refused;
(j) formal requests for assistance made by the FIU
and whether they were granted or refused;
(k) referrals made by the FIU to foreign authorities;
and
(l) formal requests for assistance made or received
by reporting persons related to money laundering
and terrorist financing including whether the
request was granted or refused.
Imposition of
administrative
sanctions

37.-(1) The FIU or regulator may, upon being satisfied
that a reporting person has failed to comply with the provisions of
sections 15, 16, 17, and 18 of the Act, impose administrative
sanctions.
(2) The FIU or regulator shall impose any of the
following administrative sanctions(a) warning or caution not to repeat the conduct which
led to non– compliance referred to in sub – regulation
(1);
(b) a reprimand;
(c) directive to take remedial action or to make specific
arrangement to remedy the default;
(d) restriction or suspension of certain business activities;
(e) suspending a business license; or
(f) suspension or removal from office any member of
staff who cause or fail to comply.
(3) Before imposing an administrative sanction, the FIU
or regulator shall give the reporting person notice in writing(a) of the nature of the alleged non – compliance;
(b) of the intention to impose administrative sanction;
and
(c) of the amount or particular of the intended
administrative sanction.
(4) The reporting person may, in writing, within a
period specified in the notice, make representations as to
why the administrative sanctions should not be imposed.
(5) Subject to sub-regulation (2) the FIU or regulator
30

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

when determining an appropriate administrative sanction, shall
consider the following(a) the nature, duration, seriousness and extent of the
default;
(b) whether the reporting person has previously failed
to comply with any written laws; and
(c) any remedial steps taken against by the reporting
person to prevent a recurrence.
(6) Where the FIU or regulator has imposed sanctions
under sub regulation (2) paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) and reporting
person fails comply with such sanctions, the FIU or regulator
shall impose a fine not exceeding five million shillings per day
for which a default is committed.
Revocation
GN No. 195
of 2007

38. The Anti-Money Laundering Regulations, 2007 is
hereby revoked.

31

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

_____
SCHEDULE
_____
(Made under regulation 28 (7))
_____

A.

VERIFICATION OF CUSTOMERS’ IDENTITIES
(a) For natural persons

1.

In case a person is unable to produce an official identity document, reporting
persons shall be satisfied that the customer has an acceptable reason for
being unable to produce an official identity document.

2.

The reason(s) provided under paragraph 1 shall be noted in the records of the
reporting person(s).

3.

Reporting persons shall confirm the permanent address using such things as
utility bills, a letter from a public authority or embassy or consular office,
recent lease or rental agreement or any other document which bear such
information and which is obtained from any credible independent source.

4.

Reporting persons shall contact the customer by telephone, letter or by e-mail
to confirm the information supplied before and after the relationship has been
established. Things like a disconnected phone, returned mail, or incorrect email address should warrant further investigation.

5.

Reporting persons shall confirm the validity of the official documentation
provided through certification by an authorised person (e.g. government
official, public notary, embassy.).

6.

Reporting persons shall apply equally effective customer identification
procedures for non-face-to-face customers as for those available for interview
and must take reasonable steps to confirm the existence of the customer and
verify the identity of the person involved and there must be specific and
adequate arrangements to mitigate the higher risk by taking such measures as:

(a) certification of documents presented;
(b) requisition of additional documents to complement those that are required for
face to face customers;
(c) independent contact with customer by the reporting persons; and
(d) third party introduction.
(b) For entities’ identities (corporate, partnerships, associations or
clubs, sole proprietorships and trusts)

32

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
1.
2.

3.

For established corporate entities, reporting persons shall review a copy of the
latest periodical reports and audited accounts, if available.
Reporting persons shall communicate with BRELA and other registering
authorities on the authenticity of registration certificates and communicating
with Tanzania Investment Centre, if applicable, for verification of necessary
documents.
Reporting persons shall undertake an entity search or other enquiries to ensure
that the entity has not been, or is not in the process of being, dissolved, struck
off, wound up or terminated.

4.

Reporting persons shall utilize an independent information verification
process, including accessing public and private databases.

5.

Reporting persons shall, in addition to the above-

6.

7.

(a) obtain prior bank references;
(b) gather information about the foreign entity for the purpose of
determining(i) the reputation of the foreign entity;
(ii) whether the foreign entity has been subject to money
laundering or terrorist financing investigation or regulatory
action; and
(iii) whether the foreign entity’s anti-money laundering and
counter terrorist financing controls are effective.
For charities, clubs and societies, reporting persons shall take reasonable
steps to identify and verify at least two signatories, in line with natural
person identification, along with the entity itself the principals to be
identified shall be those persons exercising control or significant influence
over the organisation's assets. This will include members of a governing
body or committee, the President, any board member, the treasurer, and all
signatories. Such identity verification shall be in line with natural person
verification procedures.
Where Mutual or Friendly societies, Non-Governmental Organizations,
Political parties, Cooperatives and societies are involved, reporting persons
shall identify the persons exercising control or significant influence over the
organisation's assets. This will include board members plus executives and
account signatories. Such identity verification shall be in line with natural
persons verification procedures.
(c) For other persons such as organs of state including government
ministries or departments, embassies and parastatals

1.

2.
3.

Reporting persons shall verify the identity of all their customers, including
organ of state such as government ministries or departments, embassies and
parastatals.
Reporting persons shall verify the identity of organs of state which are
incorporated as companies to conduct business.
Reporting persons shall identify other organs with legal person’s identity by

33

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
identifying representatives or persons acting on behalf of an organ of state by
obtaining and verifying their full names, dates of birth, identity numbers, and
photographs. Information concerning the contact particulars of such persons
shall be obtained and verification done in line with these Regulations.

(d) for third party or agent identities verification
1.

2.
3.

4.

Where a client is acting on behalf of another person, the reporting person shall
establish and verify the identity of that other person and the client’s authority
to establish the business relationship or conclude the transaction on behalf of
that person.
Reporting persons shall verify the information obtained by comparing the
particulars of the person in line with these Regulations.
Reporting persons on verifying the authority of a third party acting on behalf
of another person when establishing a relationship, shall confirm the identity
of that person using such documents as power of attorney, mandate resolution
duly executed by authorised signatories or a court order authorising the third
party to conduct business on behalf of another person.
Reporting persons shall take reasonable steps to verify the identity and
reputation of any agent transacting on behalf of a customer, if he is a natural
person, shall be identified like a natural person and, if it is an entity, shall be
identified like entities as provided for in these Regulations.
(e) For ongoing customer details maintenance

1.

Reporting persons shall take reasonable steps, concerning verification of
customer identities in respect to existing business relationship, to maintain the
correctness of particulars that are susceptible to change.
2. Reporting persons shall(a) apply Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures to existing customers on the
basis of materiality and risk and conduct due diligence reviews of such
existing relationships as appropriate;
(b) undertake regular reviews of existing customer records; and
(c) if a reporting person becomes aware at anytime that it lacks sufficient
information about an existing customer, the reporting person shall take steps
to obtain all relevant KYC information as quickly as possible.

B.
1.

2.

BANK OF TANZANIA

The Bank of Tanzania shall, during onsite examination satisfy itself that banks and
financial institutions have sound Know Your Customer (KYC), Customer Due
Diligence (CDD) and Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) for more risky customers
and transaction policies and procedures.
The Bank of Tanzania shall, during onsite examination satisfy itself that banks and
financial institutions retain records pertaining to customer identification and
transactions as required by the Act, these Regulations and Guidelines.

34

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
3.

The Bank of Tanzania shall during onsite examination satisfy itself that banks and
financial institutions verify identities of the customers they deal with in line with
the provisions of the Act, these Regulations and Guidelines.

C.
1.
2.

3.
4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

BANKS OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

The bank or financial institution shall have sound Know Your Customer (KYC)
policies and procedures.
Key elements in the design of KYC programs shall include customer acceptance
policy, customer identification, ongoing monitoring of high-risk accounts and risk
management.
The bank or financial institution shall not keep anonymous accounts or accounts in
fictitious names.
The bank or financial institution shall undertake customer due diligence measures,
including identifying and verifying the identity of their customers, when:
(a) establishing business relations;
(b) carrying out occasional transactions;
(c) there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing;
(d) there are doubts about the veracity or adequacy of previously obtained
customer identification information.
The bank or financial institution shall refuse to enter into, or continue, a
correspondent banking relationship with shell banks and shall also guard against
establishing relations with respondent foreign bank or financial institutions that
permit their accounts to be used by shell banks.
The bank or financial institution shall pay special attention to any money
laundering threats that may arise from new or developing technologies that might
favour anonymity, and take measures, if needed, to prevent their use in money
laundering schemes. In particular, bank or financial institutions shall have policies
and procedures in place to address any specific risks associated with non face-toface business relationships or transactions.
The bank or financial institution shall pay special attention to all complex, unusual
large transactions, and all unusual patterns of transactions, which have no apparent
economic or viable lawful purpose. The background and purpose of such
transactions should, as far as possible, be examined, the findings established, put in
writing, and made available to help competent authorities.
The Customer Due Diligence measures to be taken includes the following:
(a)
identifying the customer and verifying customer’s identity using
reliable, independent source documents, data or information;
(b)
identifying the beneficial owner, and taking reasonable measures to
verify the identity of the beneficial owner such that the banking
institution is satisfied that it knows who the beneficial owner is;
(c)
obtaining information on the purpose and intended nature of the
business relationship;
(d)
conducting ongoing due diligence on the business relationship and
scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of that
relationship to ensure that the transactions being conducted are
consistent with the institution’s knowledge of the customer, their
business and risk profile, including the source of funds.

35

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
9.

The bank or financial institution shall apply each of the CDD measures pointed out
under paragraph 8, but may determine the extent of such measures on a risk
sensitive basis depending on the type of customer, business relationship or
transaction. The measures that are taken should be consistent with any Guidelines
issued by competent authorities. For higher risk categories, institutions should
perform enhanced due diligence.
10. The bank or financial institution shall verify identities of the customers they deal
with in line with the provisions of the Act, these Regulations and Guidelines.
The bank or financial institutions shall verify the identities of customers and
beneficial owners before or during the course of establishing a business
relationship or conducting transactions for walk in customers.
11. Where the institution is unable to verify the identity as provided under paragraphs
10 and 11, it shall not open the account, commence business relations or conclude
the transaction; or it shall terminate the business relationship; and file a suspicious
activity report in relation to the customer.
12. The bank or financial institution shall, in relation to politically exposed persons (as
defined in the Act), in addition to performing normal due diligence measures(a) have appropriate risk management systems to determine whether the
customer is a politically exposed person;
(b) obtain senior management approval for establishing business
relationships with such customers;
(c) take reasonable measures to establish the source of wealth and source of
funds;
(d) conduct enhanced ongoing monitoring of the business relationship.
13. In relation to cross-border correspondent banking and other similar relationships, in
addition to performing normal due diligence measures, bank or financial
institutions shall(a) gather sufficient information about a respondent institution to understand fully
the nature of the respondent’s business and to determine from publicly
available information the reputation of the institution and the quality of
supervision, including whether it has been subject to a money laundering or
terrorist financing investigation or regulatory action;
(b) assess the respondent institution’s anti-money laundering and terrorist
financing controls;
(c) obtain approval from senior management before establishing new
correspondent relationships;
(d) with respect to “payable-through accounts”, be satisfied that the respondent
bank has verified the identity of and performed on-going due diligence on the
customers having direct access to accounts of the correspondent and that it is
able to provide relevant customer identification data upon request to the
correspondent bank.
14. The bank or financial institution shall retain records concerning customer
identification and transaction.
15. The records prepared and maintained by any bank or financial institution on its
customer relationships and transactions shall ensure that(a) requirements of legislation are fully met;

36

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
(b) competent third parties will be able to assess the institution’s observance
of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing policies and
procedures;
(c) any transactions effected via the institution can be reconstructed; and
(d) the institution can satisfy enquiries from the appropriate authorities.
16. The bank or financial institution shall retain records for at least ten years as
provided for under these Regulations whereby; retention may be by way of original
documents, stored on hard copy files, microfiche, and computer disk or in other
electronic form.
17. The records referred under paragraph 17 shall be sufficient to permit reconstruction
of individual transactions including the date, amounts and types of currency
involved so as to provide, if necessary, evidence for prosecution of criminal
activity.
18. The bank or financial institution shall keep records on the identification data
obtained through the customer due diligence process such as copies or records of
official identification documents like passports, identity cards, driving licenses or
similar documents, account files and business correspondence for at least ten years
after the business relationship is ended.

D.
1.
2.

3.
4.

5.

INSURERS

No insurer shall deal with any person on an anonymous basis or any person using a
fictitious name.
An insurer shall perform CDD measures when –
(a) the insurer establishes business relations with any customer;
(b) there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing; or
(c) the insurer has doubts about the veracity or adequacy of any information
previously obtained.
An insurer shall identify each customer who applies to the insurer to establish
business relations.
For the purpose of paragraph 3, an insurer shall obtain and record information of
the customer in accordance with the Act, including but not limited to the following:
(a) full name, including any aliases;
(b) unique identification number such as an identity card number, birth certificate
number, voters registration card number, driving license number, national ID
number, number on introduction letter from the local government executive,
passport number or where the customer is not a natural person, the
incorporation number or business registration number;
(c) existing residential address, registered or business address as may be
appropriate and contact telephone number(s);
(d) date of birth, incorporation or registration as may be appropriate; and
(e) nationality or place of incorporation or registration as may be appropriate.
Where the customer is a company, the insurer shall, apart from identifying the
customer, also identify the directors of the company.

37

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
6.

Where the customer is a partnership or a limited liability partnership, the insurer
shall, apart from identifying the customer, also identify the partners.

7.

Where the customer is any other body corporate or unincorporate, the insurer shall,
apart from identifying the customer, also identify the persons having executive
authority in that body corporate or unincorporate.
An insurer shall verify the identity of the customer using reliable, independent
sources.
An insurer shall retain copies of all reference documents used to verify the identity
of the customer.
An insurer shall inquire if there exists any beneficial owner in relation to a
customer. “Beneficial owner”, in relation to a customer of an insurer, means the
natural person who ultimately owns or controls a customer or the person on whose
behalf a transaction is being conducted and includes the person who exercises
ultimate effective control over a body corporate or unincorporate.
Where there is one or more beneficial owners in relation to a customer, the insurer
shall take reasonable measures to obtain information sufficient to identify and
verify the identity of the beneficial owner(s).
Where the customer is not a natural person, the insurer shall take reasonable
measures to understand the ownership and structure of the customer.
An insurer shall not be required to inquire if there exists any beneficial owner in
relation to a customer that is(a) a Tanzanian Government entity;
(b) a foreign Government entity, provided it is not sanctioned or blacklisted by
the international community such as the United Nations and FATF;
(c) an entity listed on the stock exchange in Tanzania;
(d) an entity listed on a stock exchange outside of Tanzania that is subject to
adequate regulatory disclosure requirements (referred regulator should be a
registered member of any International Association of Regulators);
(e) a bank or financial institution supervised by the Bank of Tanzania, the CMSA
or the TIRA;
(f) a bank or financial institution incorporated or established outside Tanzania
that is subject to and supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements
consistent with standards set by the FATF;
(g) Life insurance policies where the annual premium is not more than TZS
1,500,000 or EURO/USD 1000 or a single premium of no more than TZS
4,000,000 or EURO/USD 2500;
(h) Insurance policies for pension schemes if there is no surrender clause and the
policy cannot be used as collateral; or
(i) A pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement benefits
to employees, where contributions are made by way of deduction from wages
and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a member‘s interest
under the scheme;
Unless the insurer suspects that the transaction is connected with money
laundering or terrorist financing.

8.
9.
10.

11.

12.
13.

14. For the purposes of items (d) and (f) of paragraph 13, an insurer shall document the
basis for its determination that the requirements in those paragraphs have been duly
met.

38

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
15. Where a customer appoints one or more natural persons to act on his behalf in
establishing business relations with the insurer or the customer is not a natural
person, an insurer shall(a) identify the natural persons that act or are appointed to act on behalf of the
customer, as if such persons were themselves customers;
(b) verify the identity of these persons using reliable, independent sources; and
(c) retain copies of all reference documents used to verify the identity of these
persons.
16. In the case of private trusts, an insurer shall verify the authorization given to each
trustee of the relevant trust.
17. An insurer shall verify the due authority of such person to act on behalf of the
customer, by obtaining, including but not limited to, the following(a) the appropriate documentary evidence that the customer has appointed the
persons to act on its behalf, and
(b) the specimen signatures of the persons appointed.
18. Where the customer is a Tanzanian government entity, the insurer shall only be
required to obtain such information as may be required to confirm that the
customer is a Tanzanian government entity as indicated.
19. Where the payee of the insurance policy is not a customer, an insurer shall identify
the payee and verify his identity before making any of the following types of
payment(a) payment of the sum assured (or part thereof) upon the occurrence of the risk
insured against in accordance with the policy;
(b) payment of the surrender value of the insurance policy;
(c) refund of premium upon the avoidance, cancellation and/or termination of any
insurance policy; or
(d) refund of any other payment made in relation to any insurance policy.
20. An insurer shall obtain, from the customer, when processing the application to
establish business relations, information as to the purpose and intended nature of
business relations.
21. An insurer shall perform CDD measures as may be appropriate to its existing
customers having regard to its own assessment of materiality and risk.
22. When an insurer (“acquiring insurer”) acquires, either in whole or in part, the
business of another financial institution (whether in Tanzania or elsewhere), the
acquiring insurer shall perform CDD measures on customers acquired with the
business at the time of acquisition except where the acquiring insurer has:
(a) acquired at the same time all corresponding customer records (including
customer identification information) and has no doubt or concerns about the
veracity or adequacy of the information so acquired; and
(b) conducted due diligence enquiries that have not raised any doubt on the part
of the acquiring insurer as to the adequacy of AML/CFT measures previously
adopted in relation to the business or part thereof now acquired by the
acquiring insurer.
23. In the case of a joint account, an insurer shall perform CDD measures on all of the
joint account holders as if each of them were individually customers of the insurer.
24. An insurer that undertakes any transaction with a non-policy holder shall-

39

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
(a) establish and verify the identity of the customer as if the customer
had applied to the insurer to establish business relations; and
(b) record adequate details of the transaction so as to permit the
reconstruction of the transaction, including the nature and date of
the transaction, the type and amount of currency involved, the value
date, and the details of the payee.
25. An insurer shall complete verification of the identity of the customer and beneficial
owner(a) before the insurer establishes business relations; or
(b) before the insurer undertakes any transaction for a customer, where the
customer does not have business relations with the insurer.
26. An insurer may establish business relations with a customer before completing the
verification of the identity of the customer and beneficial owner if:
(a) the deferral of completion of the verification of the identity of the customer
and beneficial owner is essential in order not to interrupt the normal conduct
of business operations; and
(b) the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing can be effectively
managed by the insurer,
in all cases, identification and verification should occur at or before the time of
payout or the time when the beneficiary intends to exercise vested rights under the
policy.
27. Where the insurer establishes business relations before verification of the identity
of the customer or beneficial owner, the insurer shall complete such verification as
soon as is reasonably practicable.
28. Where the insurer is unable to complete CDD measures, it shall terminate the
business relationship and consider if the circumstances are suspicious so as to
warrant the filing of a suspicious transaction report.
29. An insurer shall, in relation to politically exposed persons as defined in the Act,
perform enhanced CDD measures in addition to normal CDD measures, including
but not limited to the following(a) implement appropriate internal policies, procedures and risk management
systems to determine if a customer or beneficial owner is a politically exposed
person;
(b) obtain approval from the insurer’s senior management to establish or continue
business relations where the customer or beneficial owner is a politically
exposed person or subsequently found to be or subsequently becomes a
politically exposed person;
(c) take reasonable measures to establish the source of wealth and source of funds
of the customer or beneficial owner; and
(d) conduct, during the course of business relations, enhanced monitoring of
business relations with the customer.
30. An insurer shall perform enhanced CDD measures in referred to in paragraph 29
for other categories of customers, business relations or transactions as the insurer
may assess to prevent a higher risk for money laundering and terrorist financing.
31. An insurer shall give particular attention to business relations and transactions with

40

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
any person from or in countries and jurisdictions known to have inadequate
AML/CFT measures, as determined by the insurer for itself or notified to insurers
generally by the FIU or other foreign regulatory authorities.
32. An insurer shall put in place policies and procedures to address any specific risks
associated with the use of new technologies and non-face-to-face business relations
or transactions.
33. An insurer shall implement the policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 31
when establishing customer relationships and when conducting ongoing due
diligence.
34. Where there is no face-to-face contact, the insurer shall carry out CDD measures
that are as stringent as those that would be required to be performed if there were
face-to-face contact.
35. An insurer may rely on an intermediary to perform CDD measures in accordance
with the Act and these Regulations if the following requirements are met(a) the insurer is satisfied that the intermediary it intends to rely upon is subject to
and supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements consistent with
standards set by the FATF, and has adequate measures in place to comply
with those requirements;
(b) the intermediary is not one on which insurers have been specifically precluded
by relevant Tanzanian authorities from relying;
(c) the intermediary is able and willing to provide, without delay, upon the
insurer’s request, any document obtained by the intermediary which the
insurer would be required or would want to obtain; and .
(d) the intermediary has capacity in terms of competent staff and resources to
carry out CDD.
36. No insurer shall rely on an intermediary to conduct ongoing monitoring of
customers.
37. Where an insurer relies on an intermediary to perform the CDD measures, insurer
shall:
(a) document the basis for its satisfaction that the requirements in item (a) of
paragraph 35 have been met, and
(b) immediately obtain from the intermediary the information relating to CDD
measures obtained by the intermediary.
38. For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding the reliance upon an intermediary, the
insurer shall remain responsible for its AML/CFT obligations as required under the
Act, these Regulations and Guidelines.
39. Every insurer shall prepare, maintain and retain documentation on all its business
relations, transactions.
40. An insurer shall, when setting its record retention policies and performing its
internal procedures, comply with the following document retention periods(a) a period of at least ten years following the termination of business relation for
customer identification document, and other documents relating to the
establishment of business relations, as well as account files and business
correspondence; and

41

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
(b) a period of ten years following the completion of transaction for records
relating to a transaction, including any information needed to explain and
reconstruct the transaction.
41. An insurer shall retain records pertaining to a matter which is under investigation
or which has been the subject of a suspicious transaction report (STR) for such
longer period as may be necessary in accordance with any request or order from
relevant competent authorities in Tanzania.
42. An insurer shall monitor on an ongoing basis, its business relations with customers.
43. An insurer shall, during the course of business relations, observe the conduct of the
customer’s policy and scrutinize transactions undertaken to ensure that the
transactions are consistent with the insurer’s knowledge of the customer, its
business and risk profile and where appropriate, the source of funds.
44. An insurer shall pay special attention to all complex or unusually large transactions
or unusual patterns of transactions that have no apparent or visible economic or
lawful purpose.
45. An insurer shall take reasonable steps to inquire into the background and purpose
of the transactions in paragraph 44 and document such information and its findings.
46. The records referred to under paragraph 45, shall be kept for at least ten years with
a view to making this information available to the relevant competent authorities
should the need arise.

E.
1.
2.

3.
4.

CAPITAL MARKET
LICENSEES

AND

SECURITIES

AUTHORITY

No CMSA licensee shall deal with any person on an anonymous basis or any
person using a fictitious name.
A CMSA licensee shall perform CDD measures when –
(a) the CMSA licensee establishes business relations with any customer;
(b) there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing,
notwithstanding that the CMSA licensee would otherwise not be required by
these Regulations to perform CDD measures; or
(c) the CMSA licensee has doubts about the veracity or adequacy of any
information previously obtained.
A CMSA licensee shall identify each customer who applies to the CMSA licensee
to establish business relations.
For the purpose of paragraph 3, CMSA licensee shall obtain and record
information of the customer in accordance with the provisions of the Act, including
but not limited to the following:
(a) full name, including any aliases;
(b) unique identification number such as an identity card number, birth certificate
number, voter registration card number or passport number, or where the
customer is not a natural person, the incorporation number or business
registration number;
(c) existing residential address, registered or business address (as may be
appropriate) and contact telephone number(s);
(d) date of birth, incorporation or registration (as may be appropriate); and
(e) nationality or place of incorporation or registration (as appropriate).

42

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
5.
6.
7.

8.
9.
10.

11.

12.
13.

14.

15.

Where the customer is a company, the CMSA licensee shall, apart from identifying
the customer, also identify the directors of the company.
Where the customer is a partnership or a limited liability partnership, the CMSA
licensee shall, apart from identifying the customer, also identify the partners.
Where the customer is any other body corporate or unincorporate, the CMSA
licensee shall, apart from identifying the customer, also identify the persons having
executive authority in that body corporate or unincorporate.
A CMSA licensee shall verify the identity of the customer using reliable,
independent sources.
A CMSA licensee shall retain copies of all reference documents used to verify the
identity of the customer.
A CMSA licensee shall inquire if there exists any beneficial owner in relation to a
customer. “Beneficial owner”, in relation to a customer of a CMSA licensee,
means the natural person who makes final decisions, ultimately controls a customer
or the person on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted. This includes the
person who exercises ultimate effective control over a body corporate or
unincorporates.
Where there is one or more beneficial owners in relation to a customer, the CMSA
licensee shall take reasonable measures to obtain information sufficient to identify
and verify the identity of the beneficial owner(s).
Where the customer is not a natural person, the CMSA licensee shall take
reasonable measures to understand the ownership and structure of the customer.
A CMSA licensee shall not be required to inquire if there exists any beneficial
owner in relation to a customer that is –
(a) a Tanzanian Government entity;
(b) a foreign government entity, provided it is not sanctioned or blacklisted by the
international community such as the United Nations or FATF;
(c) an entity listed on the stock exchange in Tanzania;
(d) an entity listed on a stock exchange outside of Tanzania that is subject to
adequate regulatory disclosure requirements;
(e) a bank or financial institution supervised by the Bank of Tanzania, CMSA or
TIRA;
(f) a bank or financial institution incorporated or established outside Tanzania
that is subject to and supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements
consistent with standards set by the FATF;
(g) A pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement benefits
to employees, where contributions are made by way of deduction from wages
and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a member‘s interest
under the scheme,
unless the CMSA licensee suspects that the transaction is connected with
money laundering or terrorist financing.
For the purposes of items (d) and (f)of paragraph 13, a CMSA licensee shall
document the basis for its determination that the requirements in those paragraphs
have been duly met.
Where a customer appoints one or more natural persons to act on his behalf in
establishing business relations with the CMSA licensee or the customer is not a
natural person, a CMSA licensee shall(a) identify the natural persons that act or are appointed to act on behalf of the

43

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
customer, as if such persons were themselves customers;
(b) verify the identity of these persons using reliable, independent sources; and
(c) retain copies of all reference documents used to verify the identity of these
persons.
16. In the case of private trusts, a CMSA licensee shall verify the authorization given
to each trustee of the relevant trust.
17. A CMSA licensee shall verify the due authority of such person to act on behalf of
the customer, by obtaining, including but not limited to, the following(a) the appropriate documentary evidence that the customer has appointed the
persons to act on its behalf; and
(b) the specimen signatures of the persons appointed.
18. Where the customer is a Tanzanian government entity, the CMSA licensee shall
only be required to obtain such information as may be required to confirm that the
customer is a Tanzanian government entity as indicated.
19. When a CMSA licensee (“acquiring CMSA licensee”) acquires, either in whole or
in part, the business of another financial institution (whether in Tanzania or
elsewhere), the acquiring CMSA licensee shall perform CDD measures on
customers acquired with the business at the time of acquisition except where the
acquiring CMSA licensee has:
(a) acquired at the same time all corresponding customer records (including
customer identification information) and has no doubt or concerns about the
veracity or adequacy of the information so acquired; and
(b) conducted due diligence enquiries that have not raised any doubt on the part
of the acquiring CMSA licensee as to the adequacy of AML/CFT measures
previously adopted in relation to the business or part thereof now acquired by
the acquiring CMSA licensee.
20. A CMSA licensee shall obtain, from the customer, when processing the application
to establish business relations, information as to the purpose and intended nature of
business relations.
21. Subject to paragraph 20, a CMSA licensee shall complete verification of the
identity of the customer and beneficial owner:
(a) before the CMSA licensee establishes business relations; or
(b) before the CMSA licensee undertakes any transaction for a customer, where
the customer does not have business relations with the CMSA licensee.
22. A CMSA licensee may establish business relations with a customer before
completing the verification of the identity of the customer and beneficial owner if (a) the deferral of completion of the verification of the identity of the customer
and beneficial owner is essential in order not to interrupt the normal conduct
of business operations, and
(b) the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing can be effectively
managed by the CMSA licensee.
23. Where the CMSA licensee establishes business relations before verification of the
identity of the customer or beneficial owner, the CMSA shall adopt risk
management procedures concerning the conditions under which the establishment

44

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
of business relations before verification of the identity may occur.
24. The risk management procedures under paragraph 23 shall include measures such
as a limitation of the number, types and/or amount of transactions that can be
performed and the monitoring of large or complex transactions being carried out
outside the expected norms for that type of relationship.
25. The CMSA licensee shall complete the verification procedures under paragraph 23
as soon as is reasonably practicable.
26. The CMSA licensee shall be ready to explain to competent authorities why the
deferral of completion of the verification of the identity of the customer and
beneficial owner is essential in order not to interrupt the normal conduct of
business operations.
27. Where the CMSA licensee is unable to complete CDD measures, it shall terminate
the business relationship and consider if the circumstances are suspicious so as to
warrant the filing of a suspicious transaction report (STR).
28. A CMSA licensee shall perform such CDD measures as may be appropriate to its
existing customers having regard to its own assessment of materiality and risk.
29. In the case of a joint account, a CMSA licensee shall perform CDD measures on all
of the joint account holders as if each of them were individually customers of the
CMSA licensee.
30. A CMSA licensee that undertakes any transaction with a non-account holder shall(a) establish and verify the identity of the customer as if the customer had applied
to the CMSA licensee to establish business relations; and
(b) record adequate details of the transaction so as to permit the reconstruction of
the transaction, including the nature and date of the transaction, the type and
amount of currency involved, the value date, and the details of the payee or
beneficiary.
31. Where a CMSA licensee suspects that two or more transactions are or may be
related, linked or the result of a deliberate restructuring of an otherwise single
transaction into smaller transactions in order to evade the measures provided for in
these Regulations, CMSA licensee shall treat the transactions as a single
transaction and aggregate their values for the purpose of these Regulations.
32. A CMSA licensee shall, in relation to politically exposed persons as defined in the
Act, perform enhanced CDD measures in addition to normal CDD measures,
including but not limited to the following(a) implement appropriate internal policies, procedures and risk management
systems to determine if a customer or beneficial owner is a politically exposed
person;
(b) obtain approval from the CMSA licensee’s senior management to establish or
continue business relations where the customer or beneficial owner is a
politically exposed person or subsequently found to be or subsequently
becomes a politically exposed person;
(c) take reasonable measures to establish the source of wealth and source of funds
of the customer or beneficial owner; and
(d) conduct, during the course of business relations, enhanced monitoring of
business relations with the customer.
33. A CMSA licensee shall perform enhanced CDD measures in paragraph 32 for such
other categories of customers, business relations or transactions as the CMSA

45

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

licensee may assess to present a higher risk for money laundering and terrorist
financing.
A CMSA licensee shall give particular attention to business relations and
transactions with any person from or in countries and jurisdictions known to have
inadequate AML/CFT measures, as determined by the CMSA licensee for itself or
notified to CMSA licensees generally by the FIU.
A CMSA licensee shall put in place policies and procedures to address any specific
risks associated with the use of new technologies and non-face-to-face business
relations or transactions.
A CMSA licensee shall implement the policies and procedures referred to in
paragraph 35 when establishing customer relationships and when conducting
ongoing due diligence.
Where there is no face-to-face contact, the CMSA licensee shall carry out CDD
measures that are as stringent as those that would be required to be performed if
there were face-to-face contact.
A CMSA licensee may rely on an intermediary to perform CDD measures in
accordance with the Act and these Regulations if the following requirements are
met(a) the CMSA licensee is satisfied that the intermediary it intends to rely upon is
subject to supervision for compliance with AML/CFT requirements consistent
with standards set by the FATF, and has adequate measures in place to
comply with those requirements;
(b) the intermediary is not one on which CMSA licensees have been specifically
precluded by relevant Tanzanian authorities from relying; and
(c) the intermediary is able and willing to provide, without delay, upon the
CMSA licensee’s request, any document obtained by the intermediary which
the CMSA licensee would be required or would want to obtain.

39. No CMSA licensee shall rely on an intermediary to conduct ongoing monitoring of
customers.
40. Where a CMSA licensee relies on an intermediary to perform the CDD measures, it
shall(a) document the basis for its satisfaction that the requirements in paragraph 38
have been met, and
(b) immediately obtain from the intermediary the information relating to CDD
measures obtained by the intermediary.
41. Notwithstanding the reliance upon an intermediary, the CMSA licensee shall
remain responsible for its AML/CFT obligations as required under the Act, these
Regulations and Guidelines.
42. A CMSA licensee shall monitor on an ongoing basis, its business relations with
customers.
43. A CMSA licensee shall, during the course of business relations, observe the
conduct of the customer’s policy and scrutinize transactions undertaken to ensure
that the transactions are consistent with the CMSA licensee’s knowledge of the
customer, its business and risk profile and where appropriate, the source of funds.
44. A CMSA licensee shall pay special attention to all complex or unusually large
transactions or unusual patterns of transactions that have no apparent or visible
economic or lawful purpose.

46

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
45. A CMSA licensee shall take reasonable steps to inquire into the background and
purpose of the transactions in paragraph 44 and document such information and its
findings.
46. A CMSA licensee shall periodically review the adequacy of customer identification
information obtained in respect of customers and beneficial owners and ensure that
the information is kept up to date, particularly for higher risk categories of
customers.

F.
1.
2.

3.
4.

5.
6.
7.

8.

COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES (CIS)

No CIS manager shall deal with any person on an anonymous basis or any person
using a fictitious name.
A CIS manager shall perform CDD measures when –
(a) unit holders subscribe or take part in the CIS;
(b) the CIS manager enters into negotiations with a entity with a view to signing a
trust deed for establishment of a CIS;
(c) there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing; or
(d) the CIS manager has any doubt about the veracity or adequacy of information
being provided.
A CIS manager shall establish the identity of each customer who signs an
agreement to acquire or repurchase units or shares of a scheme.
For the purpose of the paragraph 3, a CIS manager shall obtain and record
information of the customer, including but not limited to the following:
(a) in case of natural persons; full name, age, physical address, occupation,
residence, and other particulars that will enable the identification of the
individual;
(b) in case of legal persons(i) incorporation status, or in a case of a branch of a foreign company,
place of incorporation or registration as may be appropriate;
(ii) the incorporation number or business registration number;
(iii) registered or business address and contact telephone number(s);
(iv) names and particulars of shareholders, if the immediate shareholder is a
holding company to determine the ultimate or beneficial shareholders;
and
(v) names, addresses and nationalities of directors.
The CIS manager shall verify the identity of a customer using reliable, independent
sources.
The CIS manager shall retain copies of all reference documents used in identity
verification and the identification information.
The CIS manager shall inquire if there exists any beneficial owner in relation to a
customer. “Beneficial owner”, in relation to a customer of a CIS manager, means
the natural person who makes final decisions, ultimately controls a customer or the
person on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted and includes the person
who exercises ultimate effective control over a body corporate or unincorporated.
Where there is one or more beneficial owners in relation to a customer, the CIS
manager shall take reasonable measures to obtain information sufficient to identify

47

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)
and verify the identity of the beneficial owner(s).
Where the customer is not a natural person, the CIS manager shall take reasonable
measures to understand the ownership and structure of the customer.
10. The CIS manager shall not be required to inquire if there exists any beneficial
owner in relation to a customer that is –
(a) a Tanzanian government entity;
(b) a foreign government entity, provided it is not sanctioned or blacklisted by the
international community such as the United Nations or FATF;
(c) an entity listed on the stock exchange in Tanzania;
(d) an entity listed on a stock exchange outside of Tanzania that is subject to
adequate regulatory disclosure requirements;
(e) a financial institution supervised by the Bank of Tanzania, CMSA or Tanzania
Insurance Regulatory Authority;
(f) a financial institution incorporated or established outside Tanzania that is
subject to and supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements
consistent with standards set by the FATF;
(g) a pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement benefits
to employees, where contributions are made by way of deduction from wages
and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a member‘s interest
under the scheme,
unless the CMSA licensee suspects that the transaction is connected with money
laundering or terrorist financing.
9.

11. For the purposes of items (d) and (f) of paragraph 10, a CIS manager shall
document the basis for its determination that the requirements in those paragraphs
have been duly met.
12. Where a customer appoints one or more natural persons to act on his behalf in
establishing business relations with the CIS manager or the customer is not a
natural person, the CIS manager shall(a) identify the natural persons that act or are appointed to act on behalf of the
customer, as if such persons were themselves customers;
(b) verify the identity of these persons using reliable, independent sources; and
(c) retain copies of all reference documents used to verify the identity of these
persons.
13. In the case of private trusts, the CIS manager shall verify the authorization given to
each trustee of the relevant trust.
14. The CIS manager shall verify the due authority of such person to act on behalf of
the customer, by obtaining, including but not limited to, the following:
(a) the appropriate documentary evidence that the customer has appointed the
persons to act on its behalf; and
(b) the specimen signatures of the persons appointed.
15. Where the customer is a Tanzanian government entity, the CIS manager shall be
required to obtain information as may be required to confirm that the customer is a
Tanzanian government entity as indicated.
16. Where a CIS Manager (“acquiring Manager”) acquires, either in whole or in part,
the business of another CIS Manager, the acquiring Manager, shall perform CDD

48

Anti-Money Laundering
G.N. No. 289 (contd.)

17.
18.
19.
20.

21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

measures on customers acquired with the business at the time of acquisition, except
where the acquiring Manager has(a) acquired at the same time all corresponding customer records (including
information on natural persons appointed to act or are acting on behalf of the
customer) and has no doubt or concerns about the veracity or adequacy of the
information so acquired; and
(b) conducted due diligence enquiries that have not raised any doubt on the part
of the acquiring Manager as to the adequacy of AML/CFT measures
previously adopted in relation to the business or part thereof.
The Trustee of the acquired scheme shall ensure that the new manager fully
complies with these Regulations.
A CIS manager shall obtain, from a customer, when processing an application to
establish business relations, information as to the purpose and intended nature of
business relations.
No CIS manager shall act as manager for a CIS unless the manager has completed
CDD measures in relation to that customer.
Where the CIS manager is, for any reason, unable to complete CDD measures on a
customer, he shall not enter into a business relationship with that customer and
shall instead consider if the circumstances are suspicious so as to warrant the filing
of an STR.
A CIS manager shall have at least one face-to-face contact with a customer before
allowing that customer to hold units or shares in the CIS.
Where there is no face-to-face contact, the CIS manager shall carry out CDD
measures that are as stringent as those that would be required to be performed if
there were face-to-face contact.
A CIS manager shall observe conduct of the customer especially the customer’s
transactions to ensure that such transactions are generally consistent with the CIS
Manager’s knowledge of the customer.
A CIS manager shall pay special attention to the transactions conducted by a
customer that have no apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose.
A CIS manager shall, to the extent possible, inquire into the background and
purpose of the transactions and document their findings with a view to making this
information available to the relevant competent authorities, should the need arise.
A CIS manager shall periodically review the adequacy of customer identification
information obtained in respect of customers and ensure that the information is
kept up to date.

Dar es salaam,
27th August, 2012

WILLIAM AUGUSTAO MGIMWA,
Minister for Finance

49

