THE BANKING AND
Banking
FINANCIAL
and Financial
INSTITUTIONS
InstitutionsACT, 2006
______
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
______

PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS

Section
1.
2
3

Title

Short title and commencement.
Application.
Interpretation.

PART II
LICENSING, REGULATION AND SUPERVISION TO VEST IN THE BANK
4.
5.

Licensing, regulation and supervision to vest in the Bank.
Underlying objectives of the Act.

PART III
LICENSING, OWNERSHIP AND STRUCTURE OF BANKS AND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Prohibition on operating without a licence.
Power of the Bank to grant licence.
Application for a licence.
Investigation and review of application.
Grant or denial of a licence.
Duration, suspension and revocation of a licence.
Persons not eligible to take part in the management and board of
banks and financial institutions.
13. Restriction on the use of the word ‘bank’.
14. Designation of microfinance companies and housing finance
companies.
15. Restrictions on ownership of banks and financial institutions.
1

Banking and Financial Institutions

2 No. 5

2006

PART IV
CAPITAL RESERVES AND ACCOUNTS
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

Compliance with capital requirements.
Capital requirements.
Transitional Provisions.
Restriction on dividends.
Computation of capital and financial ratios.
Liquid assets ratio.
Accounts and independent audits.
Internal controls and internal audits.
PART V
ACTIVITIES AND INVESTMENTS

24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Permissible activities.
Large exposures.
Connected lending.
Establishment, relocation and closure of banking units.
Limitation on investment in companies engaged in activities not
authorized.
29. Limitation on investment in fixed assets.
30. Bank to authorize voluntary mergers.
PART VI
SUPERVISION, COORDINATION AND CONTROL
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.

Power to conduct examinations of banks and financial institutions.
Submission and publication of information.
Power of the Bank over banks and financial institutions.
Prompt corrective action.
Power of the Bank with respect to affiliates and cross-border
supervision.
PART VII
THE DEPOSIT INSURANCE FUND

36. Establishment of the Fund.
37. Deposit Insurance Board.

No. 5
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.

Banking and Financial Institutions

Contributions to the Fund.
Protection of deposits and payments out of the Fund.
Identification of institutions whose deposits are insured.
Role of the Deposit Insurance Board as Liquidator.
Annual report of the Deposit Insurance Board activities.
PART VIII
SPECIAL DUTIES OF BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

Prohibition on taking deposits while insolvent.
Exhibition of licences.
Exhibition of financial statements.
Bank to deal with abandoned property.
Abandoned property.
Fidelity and secrecy.
Fair lending and collection practices.
PART IX
LIQUIDATION, SEIZURE AND REORGANIZATION

50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.

Voluntary liquidation.
Duties of bank or financial institution on voluntary liquidation.
Notice of voluntary liquidation.
Rights of depositors and creditors.
Distribution of assets on voluntary liquidation.
Seizure during voluntary liquidation.
Seizure in other circumstances.
Consequences of seizure.
Powers of the Bank upon seizure.
Management by the Bank.
Bridge bank or financial institution.
Compulsory liquidation.
Judicial review.

PART X
REPRESENTIVE OFFICES OF FOREIGN BANKS OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
63. Representative offices of foreign banks or financial institutions.

2006 3

Banking and Financial Institutions

4 No. 5

PART XI
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.

Declaration of bank holidays.
Penalty for doing unauthorized business.
Default fines.
Civil money penalties.
Power of the Governor on waivers.
Immunity.
Restrictions on employment.
Regulations, directives, and circulars.
Repeal.

2006

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 5

NO. 5 OF 2006
I ASSENT
........................................
President
........................................

An Act to provide for comprehensive regulation of banks and
financial institutions; to provide for regulation and supervision
of activities of savings and credit co-operative societies and
schemes with a view to maintaining the stability, safety and
soundness of the financial system aimed at reduction of risk of
loss to depositors; to provide for repeal of the Banking and
Financial Institutions Act, (Cap.342) and to provide for other
related matters.
ENACTED by the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.
PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
1.----(1) This Act may be cited as the Banking and Financial Institutions
Act, 2006.
(2) This Act shall come into operation on the date as the Minister
may, by notice published in the Gazette, appoint.
2.–(1) This Act shall apply to Tanzania Mainland as well as to Tanzania
Zanzibar.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall apply to all banks and financial
institutions, and where there is a conflict between this Act and any

Short title
and commencement

Application

6 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

provision of any law establishing a bank or financial institution, the
provisions of this Act shall prevail.
(3) The Bank may, by notice published in the Gazette, order that the
provisions of this Act or any part thereof shall, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Bank may impose, apply to institutions involved in the
business of financial intermediation but not in the business of banking.
(4) In exercising the power under subsection (3), the Bank shall regulate
and supervise the activities of all savings and credit cooperative societies
and schemes whose deposits have surpassed an amount equivalent to
the minimum core capital for a micro-finance company.
(5) The savings and credit cooperative societies and schemes shall
be regulated by the Bank in accordance with the regulations made in
respect of micro-finance companies.
(6) For purposes of compliance with subsection (4), the Bank may
source a public or private body and devise mechanism for the expeditious
identification of such societies and schemes.
Interpretation

3. In this Act, unless the context requires otherwise “affiliate” means a company that directly or indirectly controls, or is
under common control with, a bank or financial institution;
“Bank” has the meaning ascribed to it by the Bank of Tanzania Act;
“bank” means an entity that is engaged in the banking business;
“banking business” means the business of receiving funds from the general
public through the acceptance of deposits payable upon demand or
after a fixed period or after notice, or any similar operation through
the frequent sale or placement of bonds, certificates, notes or other
securities, and to use such funds, in whole or in part, for loans or
investments for the account of and at the risk of the person doing
such business;
“control” shall be presumed to exist when a person directly or indirectly
(a) owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than fifty percent
of the voting shares of another person;
(b) controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors
of another person; or

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 7

(c) has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the
management or policies of another person;
“core capital” or “tier 1 capital” means permanent shareholders’ equity
in the form of issued and fully paid ordinary shares, and perpetual
non-cumulative preference shares, capital grants and disclosed
reserves less year todate losses, goodwill organization, pre-operating
expenses, prepaid expenses, deferred charges, leasehold rights and
any other intangible assets;
“credit reference bureau” means an entity specialized in the collection
and sale of credit performance information for individuals and
companies;
“deposit” means a sum of money paid on terms which–
(a) require it to be repaid, with or without interest or premium of any
kind, and either on demand or at a time in circumstances agreed
by or on behalf of the person making the payment and the person
receiving it; and
(b) is not referable to the provision of property or services or the
giving of security, whether or not evidenced by any entry in a
record of the person receiving the sum or by any receipt, certificate,
note or other document, and references in this Act to money
deposited and to the making of a deposit shall be construed
accordingly;
“director” means any person by whatever title or designation known,
carrying out or empowered to carry out functions in relation to the
direction of a bank or financial institution which are substantially the
same as those carried out by a member of board of directors of a
company incorporated under the Companies Act and Companies
Decree;
“disclosed reserves” include all reserves created or increased by
appropriations of retained earnings (after deducting all expenses,
provisions, taxation, and dividends) or other surplus such as share
premiums, retained profit, general reserves and legal reserves, if such
disclosed reserves are permanent and unencumbered and thus able
to absorb losses;
“effective date” means the date on which this Act comes into operation;
“effective interest rate” means the true cost of funds for a borrower

Cap.212

8 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

from a bank or financial institution which may be higher, equal to or
lower than the nominal interest rate depending on the method used to
calculate the amount of interest due or accrued;
“entity” means corporation, partnership, trust, association, joint venture,
pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization, or
any other form of undertaking that is not specifically listed herein but
that is commonly recognized as an entity; and, unless the context
indicates to the contrary, includes any Government or government
agency or instrumentality;
“financial institution” means an entity engaged in the business of banking,
but limited as to size, locations served, or permitted activities, as
prescribed by the Bank or required by the terms and conditions of its
licence;
“financial intermediation” means the lending, investing or placement of
funds or securities or both, received, acquired or obtained from the
general public or from a well-defined group of persons by way of
deposit, borrowing, contribution, premium or in a fiduciary capacity,
either for the account of the person receiving such funds or securities
or for the account of others;
“first class international bank” means an international bank that has a
minimum long-term rating by internationally recognized rating agencies
of “A” or above;
“Governor” has the meaning ascribed to it by the Bank of Tanzania Act;
“housing finance company” means a financial institution incorporated as
a company limited by shares to undertake primarily a mortgage finance
business with households in rural and urban areas of Tanzania Mainland
and Tanzania Zanzibar;
“indexed interest rate” means a rate that is not fixed but varies in line
with changes in the reference rate;
“individual” means a natural person;
“insolvency” means total liabilities of a bank or financial institution exceed
its total assets, as determined by the Bank;
“micro-enterprise” means a small personal and family business that
operates in the informal sector with no formal accounting or financial
records and whose real assets, if any, can hardly be pledged or
reasonably accepted as collateral;
“micro-finance company” means a financial institution incorporated as a
company limited by shares formed to undertake banking business
primarily with households, small holder farmers and micro-enterprises
in rural or urban areas of Tanzania Mainland and Tanzania Zanzibar;

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

“Minister” means except where otherwise specified, the Minister
responsible for financial matters of the United Republic;
“off balance sheet exposure” means all items not shown on the balance
sheet but which constitute credit risk or other risks as determined by
the Bank; and such items include guarantees, acceptances,
performance bonds, letters of credit, interest and exchange rate related
items, and other off balance sheet items deemed by the Bank to
constitute risks;
“officer” means the Chief Executive Officer of a bank or financial
institution, official of lower rank down to the assistant head of a
department or branch or their equivalent, and any member of a
permanent committee or body (including the Regional Board) whose
duties include function of management such as those ordinarily
performed by regular officers and anyone whose duties as an officer
are defined in the articles of association or who is generally known to
be an officer of the institution either through announcement,
representation, publication or communication made by the institution;
“person” means an individual or an entity;
“place of business” means a branch or office of a bank or a financial
institution including a mobile office open to the public;
“reference rate” means an average interest rate that is indicative of
overall market conditions or that is appropriate to a particular line of
business, calculated and published by the Bank on a periodic basis;
“savings and credit cooperative society” or “savings and credit scheme”
means a society or scheme established under the applicable law for
cooperatives or other societies, whose principal objectives are to
encourage thrift among its members and to create a source of credit
for its members;
“significant interest” means a holding of five per cent or more of the
voting shares of a bank or financial institution;
“small holder farmers” means farmers who undertake small scale farming
without definite capital and whose real assets are not traditionally
acceptable as collateral;
“subsidiary” means a company that is owned or controlled by another
company;
“supplementary capital” or “Tier 2 capital” means general provisions
which are held against future, presently unidentified losses and are
freely available to meet losses which subsequently materialize,
subordinated debts, cumulative and redeemable preferred stocks, and

2006 9

10 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

any other form of capital as may be determined and announced from
time to time by the Bank;
“total capital” means the sum of core capital and supplementary capital;
“total risk weighted assets and off-balance sheet exposures” means total
assets and off-balance sheet exposures adjusted in relation to the
risks of the different categories of assets and off-balance sheet
exposures as may be prescribed by the Bank; and
“unsecured” in relation to advances or credit facilities means advances
or credit facilities granted without security, or in the case of any
advance or credit facility granted against security, any part of such
advance or credit facility which at any given time exceeds the market
value of the assets comprising the security given or which exceeds
the valuation acceptable to the bank or financial institution whenever
the bank or financial institution deems that no ascertainable market
value exists for the said assets; and for the purposes of this definition,
the Bank may prescribe the terms and conditions under which a third
party guarantee may be considered as security.
PART II
LICENSING, REGULATION AND SUPERVISION TO VEST IN THE BANK
Licensing,
regulation
and supervision to
vest in
the Bank

4.–(1) Notwithstanding any provision of any other law, the power
relating to the licensing, regulation and supervision of all banks and
financial institutions in the United Republic that are subject to this Act is
hereby vested in the Bank.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred on the
Bank, the Bank shall have power to (a) grant licences;
(b) carry out inspections over the operations of all banks or
financial institutions in accordance with the provisions of this
Act;
(c) require any bank or financial institution within such time as it
may stipulate, to furnish any information or to comply with
any order, directive or determination issued or made by the
Bank pursuant to all the powers of the Bank conferred on it
under this Act; and
(d) require any bank or financial institution to provide periodical

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 11

written reports at such times and in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Bank.
5. The primary objectives of supervision and regulation of banks and
financial institutions by the Bank are to maintain the stability, safety and
soundness of the financial system and to reduce the risk of loss to
depositors.

Underlying
objectives
of the
Act

PART III
LICENSING, OWNERSHIP AND STRUCTURE OF BANKS AND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS
6.–(1) A person may not engage in the banking business or otherwise
accept deposits from the general public unless that person has a licence
issued by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding twenty million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Prohibition on
operating
without a
licence

(3) Any body corporate which contravenes the provisions of this
section and every director and every officer who is in default thereof
shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding twenty million shillings.
(4) Every director and every officer who is in default shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years unless such director or
officer proves that the contravention occurred without his knowledge or
consent; save that it shall be no defense for a director or officer to prove
that the contravention occurred without his knowledge if, having regard
to the duties of his office, he ought to have known the contravention.
7.–(1) The Bank may, upon application made in pursuance of the
provisions of this Act, grant a licence to undertake the banking business
to an entity formally established in accordance with the Companies Act,
Companies Decree, Cooperative Societies Act, 1986 or the Cooperative
Societies Act, 2003.
(2) The licence shall permit a bank or financial institution to conduct
banking business in the United Republic, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Bank may require.

Power of
the Bank
to grant
licence
Cap.212
andAct
No. 20 of
2003

12 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(3) The licence may permit the conduct of business outside the United
Republic, subject to such terms and conditions as the Bank may prescribe,
to ensure effective supervision, compliance with this Act and the
requirements of law in such jurisdiction other than the United Republic.
Application for a
licence

8.–(1) Every application for a licence shall be made in writing and
shall include–
(a) applicant’s proposed memorandum and articles of association
or other charter or instrument of formation required by
applicable law;
(b) a statement of the address of the head office, location of the
principal and other places where it proposes to do business
and, in the case of a mobile agency, the area to be served;
(c) the name and address of every subscriber, shareholder, board
directors, Chief Executive Officer and any officer directly
reporting to the Chief Executive Officer;
(d) information that may be prescribed by the Bank for purposes
of assessing solvency and trustworthness of each shareholder
with a significant interest; and
(e) such financial data, business plans and other documents and
information as the Bank may require in order to conduct the
investigation during review of the application.
(2) The application and every document submitted with an application
shall be signed by the directors of the applicant together or by any officer
legally authorized to do so.

Investigation and
review of
application

9.–(1) The Bank shall conduct an investigation to satisfy itself as to–
(a) the completeness and validity of the documents submitted;
(b) the solvency and trustworthness of subscribers and
shareholders;
(c) the character and experience of the subscribers, shareholders,

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 13

board directors, Chief Executive Officer and any officer
directly reporting to the Chief Executive Officer;
(d) the adequacy of its capital structure;
(e) the convenience and needs of the community it intends to
serve;
(f) the prospects for profitable operation; and
(g) the ability of the applicant to comply with the requirements of
this Act and to conduct business in a sound manner.
(2) In reviewing the application, the Bank may, in addition, take into
account–
(a) the extent to which the intended lending policies, procedures
and internal controls of the applicant are designed to promote
sound financing of economic activities in underserved
communities;
(b) the extent to which the intended training and employment
programmes of the applicant are aimed at promoting
professionalism in the financial sector; and
(c) such other matters as the Bank may deem necessary and
appropriate for carrying out the objectives of this Act.
10.–(1) Within ninety days following the receipt of an application or,
where further information has been required, after receipt of such
information, the Bank shall either grant the licence or reject it.
(2) The Bank shall only grant a licence when it is satisfied that the
applicant has met the licensing criteria under this Act and any other
requirement specified by the Bank.
(3) The Bank may, in any case where it grants a licence, impose such
terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate, including temporary or
permanent restrictions regarding the total amount of credit
accommodations or the engagement in any number of activities or
operations.

Grant or
denial of
a licence

14 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(4) Whenever an application is rejected, the Bank shall provide the
applicant a written explanation of the grounds upon which the rejection
is based.
(5) An applicant whose application has been rejected may reapply, if
the deficiencies that formed the basis for rejection of the initial application
or subsequent review have been corrected or otherwise addressed.
11.–(1) The licence, once issued, shall remain in force unless suspended
or revoked in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Bank may suspend the licence of a bank or financial
institution if–
(a) the Bank determines that a bank or financial institution
has failed to meet any of the minimum capital
requirements; or
(b) the Bank is of the opinion that the affairs of the bank or
financial institution are being conducted in a manner that
is detrimental to the interests of its depositors.
(3) The Bank may revoke the licence of a bank or financial
institution if such bank or financial institution–
(a) voluntarily requests revocation;
(b) fails to commence operations within twelve months from
the date the licence was granted unless such period is
extended in writing by the Bank;
(c) fails to comply with prudential requirements;
(d) provided false or misleading information when applying
for a licence;
(e) fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the licence
or any remedial measures required under this Act;
(f) is engaged in a pattern of unsafe or unsound practices
that threaten its financial condition or is detrimental to
the interests of the depositors;

Duration,
suspension
and
revocation of a
licence

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 15

(g) has refused to permit an inspection or to provide information
required by the Bank or is otherwise in breach of any of the
provisions of this Act or any regulations made thereunder;
(h) ceases to do business in the United Republic;
(i) has been seized by the Bank in accordance with this Act;
(j) is insolvent as determined by the Bank; or
(k) fails to pay an assessment made under section 67(5).
(4) The Bank shall suspend or revoke the licence that has been
granted to a branch or subsidiary of a foreign bank or financial institution,
if the licence of such foreign bank or financial institution granted by the
supervisory authority at the home country has been suspended or revoked.
(5) When the licence has been revoked, the Bank shall–
(a) immediately arrange for publication of a notice of revocation
in the Gazette;
(b) immediately publish a notice of revocation in newspapers of
general circulation in the areas in the United Republic in which
the main office of the relevant bank or financial institution is
located, which notice shall appear at the earliest possible time
and in any event not later than three days after the date of
revocation; or
(c) take any other steps necessary to inform the public of such
revocation.
Persons
not
eligible to
take part
in the
management and
boards of
banks or
financial
institutions

12.–(1) Any person who is a director or officer concerned with the
management of a bank or financial institution shall cease to hold office if
he(a) is an adjudged bankrupt or suspends payments or compounds
with his creditors;
(b) is convicted of a felony or any offence involving fraud or
dishonesty; or
(c) has been removed from any office held, whether as a director
or officer, at any other bank or financial institution, by the

16 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

Bank.
(2) No person who has been a director or who has been directly or
indirectly concerned in the management of a bank or financial institution
the licence of which has been revoked shall, without the approval of the
Bank, act or continue to act as a director or be concerned directly or
indirectly in the management of any bank or financial institution.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsections (1)
and (2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding ten million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three years or to both.
13.–(1) Unless licensed as a bank or financial institution under this
Act, no person shall use the word “bank” or any of its derivatives in any
language or any other word indicating the transaction of banking business,
in the name, description or title under which such person is doing business
in United Republic or make or continue to make any representation to
such effect in any letter, paper, notice, advertisement or in any other
manner whatsoever for the purpose of doing business in United Republic.

Restriction
on use of
the word
‘bank’

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall prevent a person from using the
word “bank” or any of its derivatives in any language, when it is for
purpose of organizing a company with the aim of making an application
to the Bank for a grant of a licence provided that the Bank is notified of
such an intention.
(3) Except with the prior written consent of the Bank, no bank or
financial institution shall use, or refer to itself by a name other than that
under which it is established.
(4) No bank or financial institution shall be or remain licensed under
a name which so closely resembles the name of an existing institution as
would be likely, in the opinion of the Bank, to mislead the public.
14.–(1) Micro-finance companies and housing finance companies
shall utilize the acronyms M.F.C. and H.F.C. after their commercial
names before the term “Limited”.
(2) Banks may make use of acronyms M.F.C. and H.F.C. provided
that their by-laws provide these activities as primary and the bank is
subject to the credit limits for financial institutions prescribed under this

Designation of
microfinance
companies
and
housing
finance
companies

No. 5
Restrictions
on ownership of
banks and
financial
institutions

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 17

Act.
15.–(1) A person shall not own or control, directly or indirectly, a
beneficial interest of more than twenty percent of the voting shares of
any bank or financial institution, except as provided in this section.
(2) Any transfer of ownership or control of a beneficial interest in
shares of a bank or financial institution that results in ownership or control
of five percent or more of voting shares shall be void unless the Bank
has granted prior approval of the transfer.
(3) In determining whether to approve a transfer under this section,
the acceptability of the transferee shall be determined in the same manner
and on the same basis as the determination of acceptability of shareholders
for an application for a licence.
(4) A bank, financial institution or a holding company of a bank or
financial institution, may acquire, directly or indirectly, a beneficial interest
in shares of another bank or financial institution, or may establish its own
bank or financial institution, without regard to the limit imposed in
subsection (1), subject to approval of the Bank.
(5) The Bank shall prescribe criteria for review of such ownership or
control, taking into account–
(a) the ability of the Bank to effectively supervise the entities,
both separately and on a consolidated basis;
(b) the financial condition and ownership structure of the investing
bank or financial institution;
(c) any risks to the bank or financial institution in which the interest
is acquired that could arise from such ownership or control;
and
(d) proven good track record as may be ascertained by a
regulatory board under which the Bank or financial institution
operated for at least ten years.
(6) Where the investing bank or financial institution is a foreign bank,
financial institution or holding company, the Bank shall also satisfy itself

18 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

that–
(a) supervision of such bank, financial institution or holding
company by the supervisory authorities in its home country is
effective and adequate, including the fit and proper criteria
applied;
(b) the bank or financial institution is in good standing and the
home country supervisory authority has approved the
investment;
(c) the bank or financial institution is supervised by the home
country supervisory authority on a consolidated basis; and
(d) there are no obstacles to the receipt by the Bank of
information regarding such bank or financial institution or
holding company.
(7) Notwithstanding the ownership restrictions stipulated under
subsection (1), the Bank may grant written approval to permit a body
corporate to own up to sixty six per cent of the share capital of a
microfinance or housing finance company, if the Bank determines that
the body corporate has–
(a) sufficient financial resources; and
(b) sufficient experience in housing finance or lending to
individuals, small enterprises or micro-enterprises.
(8) For purposes of this section, where two or more persons, each
of whom beneficially owns or controls directly or indirectly shares in a
bank or financial institution are acting in concert as determined by the
Bank with respect to such ownership or control, they shall be treated as
a single person and the limitation in this section shall be applied to the
aggregate number of shares of the bank or financial institution held by
such persons.
PART IV
CAPITAL, RESERVES AND ACCOUNTS
16. Every bank or financial institution shall maintain unimpaired capital
of at least equal to the minimum requirements specified except as

Compliance with
capital
requirements

No. 5
Capital
requirements

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 19

otherwise specifically provided in this Part.
17.–(1) Every bank shall–
(a) commence operations with and maintain at all times a minimum
of core capital of not less than five billion shillings or such
higher amount as the Bank may prescribe by order published
in the Gazette;
(b) at all times maintain core capital of not less than ten per cent
of its total risk-weighted assets and off balance sheet
exposure; and
(c) at all times maintain total capital of not less than twelve per
cent of its total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet
exposure.
(2) For the purpose of encouraging provision of banking services to
underserved communities whether rural or urban, the Bank may establish
categories of financial institutions and prescribe capital requirements
that may differ from the requirements of subsection (1), so long as the
Bank determines that such capital requirements are reasonable, taking
into account the objectives stated in section 5.
(3) Where the Bank determines that a bank or financial institution
has insufficient capital necessary to shield against the risks, both on and
off the balance sheet, arising from the business of that bank or financial
institution, it shall direct such bank or financial institution to increase its
capital above the requirements of this section and the regulations
thereunder, to such level as the Bank may determine.

Transitional
Provisions

18.–(1) This section shall apply to any bank that was in existence on
11th April, 2003 which, on that date, had capital of less than the amounts
prescribed under section 17.
(2) Any bank to which subsection (1) applies shall be given a period
of three years until 30th April, 2008 to increase its capital to the amount
needed to fully comply with subsection (1) of section 17.
(3) Where the bank is unable to comply with the requirements of
section 17 at the end of the period specified in subsection (2), the Bank
may prescribe additional period of not more than two years within which

20 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

the bank shall increase its capital to the amount required.
(4) Where the bank is unable to comply with the requirements of
subsection (2) or at the end of any additional period granted under
subsection (3), the Bank shall require such bank to apply for a licence to
operate as a financial institution.
(5) The Bank shall establish the procedures to carry out the purposes
of this provision, covering such matters as the procedure under which
the bank shall be re-licensed to reflect the change in the status under this
section, the procedures for transfer of deposit accounts subject to
withdrawal by cheque to one or more banks; and the procedure for the
required change of name and any other matters arising from the change
in the status.
(6) Where a bank fails to qualify for re-licensing as a financial institution
its licence shall be revoked.
(7) During the period specified in subsection (2) and any extension
granted under subsection (3), the bank shall continue to be subject to all
other requirements of this Act, and the Bank may take any action with
respect to such bank as is authorized by this Act.
(8) Where, during the three-year period and any further extension
granted the bank's capital falls below the capital requirements that were
in effect on date immediately before 11th April, 2003, that bank shall be
treated as a bank whose capital is not in compliance with section 17.
19.–(1) No bank or financial institution shall at any time declare,
credit, or pay any dividend or make any other transfer from profits if
such payments or transfers result in such bank or financial institution
failure to meet the requirements of section 17.
(2) Where any bank or financial institution contravenes the provisions
of this section, that bank or financial institution and any officer of a bank
or financial institution who is in default commits an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty million shillings.

Restriction
on
dividends

No. 5
Computation of
capital
and
financial
ratios

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 21

.
20. In making the calculations necessary to ascertain that a bank or
financial institution is complying with the requirements of section 17,
provisions shall be made to the satisfaction of the Bank for the following
items–
(a) provisions for bad and doubtful debts, including bad debts
which have yet to be written off;
(b) operating and accumulated losses;
(c) preliminary expenses, representing expenses relating to
organization, extension or the purchase of business goodwill
and including underwriting commission; and
(d) such other items as the Bank may prescribe.

Liquid
assets
ratio

21.–(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, every bank or financial
institution shall maintain liquid assets at levels prescribed by the Banks
from time to time.
(2) The Bank may prescribe the methods of computing the ratio for
liquid assets and may, if in the opinion of the Bank it is necessary or
desirable to do so, vary the ratio prescribed under subsection (1) or
prescribe different ratios for different kinds of deposits or other liabilities.
(3) Any variation of the ratio and any prescription of different ratios
shall apply uniformly to all bank or financial institutions and shall take
effect on the expiration of thirty days' notice to the bank or financial
institutions.
(4) The Bank may impose on any bank or financial institution which
fails to maintain the minimum ratio prescribed under this section, a penalty
charge of not less than two percentage points at an annual rate above
the interest rate prevailing in the most recent ninety-one day Treasury
Bill auction on the amount of the deficiency, and the penalty charge may
be recovered by deduction from any balance of, or moneys owing to the
bank or financial institution concerned, or by suit as a civil debt.

22 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(5) In this section–
(a) the "liquid assets" of a bank or financial institution means its
cash in hand, balances with the Bank, unencumbered shortterm securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of
the United Republic and such other assets as the Bank may
specify; and
(b) the "liabilities" of a bank or financial institution means its
liabilities in the United Republic other than the paid-up capital
reserves, the credit balance in any retained earnings accounts,
advances taken from the Bank or such other liabilities as the
Bank may exclude.
22.–(1) In order to establish an adequate accounting and financial
reporting system, the Bank shall issue an accounting manual for
mandatory use by all banks and financial institutions, including a chart of
accounts, accounting principles and procedures, as well as standards for
financial reporting and publishing, in line with international accounting
standards.
(2) The Board of Directors of every bank and financial institution
shall ensure that proper books of accounts and other records are kept in
relation to the operations of the bank or financial institution and shall
prepare in respect of each financial year financial statements in
accordance with international accounting standards and any other reports
that the Bank shall prescribe.
(3) The financial statements shall be ready for submission to the
auditors within two months of the close of the financial year of each
bank or financial institution.
(4) Every bank or financial institution shall appoint annually an
independent auditor approved by the Bank who shall undertake the annual
audit of the bank or financial institution in accordance with international
auditing standards.
(5) The auditor appointed under this section shall have the right to
submit directly to the Bank such reports as it considers necessary to
bring to the attention of the Bank for purposes of improving the operations
of banks or financial institutions in the United Republic.

Accounts
and
independent
audits

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 23

(6) No duty of an auditor or former auditor of a bank or financial
institution shall be considered breached by reason of a communication in
good faith to an officer or employee of the Bank, whether or not in
response to a request, of any information or opinion on a matter to which
this section applies and which is relevant to any function of the Bank
under this Act.
(7) The preceding subsection shall apply to any matter of which the
auditor becomes aware in his capacity as auditor and which relates to
the business or affairs of the bank or financial institution or any of its
affiliates or any director, controller, manager or relative of such person
in relation to which the information is given.
(8) As soon as the accounts of a bank or financial institution have
been audited, and in any case not later than three months after the close
of the financial year, the Board of Directors shall send a copy of the
financial statements to the Bank together with a copy of any report
made by the auditor, including any letter to the management or other
communication prepared in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting standards.
(9) The Bank may arrange trilateral meetings with a bank or financial
institution and its independent auditor from time to time, to discuss matters
relevant to the Bank's supervisory responsibilities which have arisen in
the course of the statutory audit of the bank or financial institution, including
relevant aspects of the bank or financial institution's business, its
accounting and control system and its annual accounts.
(10) All entries in the books and accounts of bank or financial
institutions in the United Republic shall be in English or Kiswahili or in
both languages.
(11) Where any bank or financial institution contravenes or fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section, the bank or financial
institution concerned and every director and every officer who is in default
shall on conviction be liable to a default fine as provided for under section
66.

24 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

23.–(1) The Board of Directors of every bank or financial institution
shall approve proper policies and procedures, and adequate overall internal
control systems, for monitoring and controlling the risks for each line of
business and market served by such bank or financial institution, including
credit, financial, market, operations, legal and any other risk affecting or
likely to affect such bank or financial institution.

2006
Internal
controls
and
internal
audits

(2) The Board of Directors shall ensure that the management
effectively implements the policies, procedures and internal controls.
(3) Every bank or financial institution shall have an audit committee
chaired by a non-executive member of the Board of Directors; and every
bank or financial institution shall also have an internal auditor appointed
by the Board, who shall report to the audit committee and who shall be
responsible for verifying, among other duties which may be prescribed
by the Board or the Bank, the correct and effective implementation of
the internal control system and the timely identification and management
of credit, financial, market, operations, legal and any other risk affecting
or likely to affect such bank or financial institution.
(4) The Bank shall prescribe general provisions in cases where a
bank or financial institution contravenes or fails to comply with any of
the requirements of this section irrespective of convictions of directors
or officers for any breach or default fines that may be imposed under
section 66.
PART V
ACTIVITIES AND INVESTMENTS
24.–(1) A licensed bank or financial institution may engage in any or
all of the following activities, directly or through a separately incorporated
subsidiary as determined by the Bank, subject to any limitation in the
licence issued to such bank or financial institution–
(a) acceptance of deposits;
(b) lending;
(c) financial leasing;

Permissible
activities

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 25

(d) money transmission services;
(e) issuing and administering means of payment including but not
limited to credit cards, travellers' cheques and bankers' drafts;
(f) guarantees and commitments;
(g) trading for own account or for account of customers in (i)

money market instruments such as cheques, bills and
certificates of deposit;

(ii)

foreign exchange;

(iii) financial futures and options;
(iv) exchange and interest-rate instruments;
(v)

transferable securities;

(h) advice to undertakings on capital structure, industrial strategy
and related questions and advice as well as services relating
to mergers and the purchase of undertakings;
(i) money broking;
(j) portfolio management and advice;
(k) safekeeping and administration of securities;
(l) credit reference services;
(m) safe custody services;
(n) development financing
(o) mortgage financing; and
(p) other activities determined by the Bank to be customary
banking practices or incidental to the banking business.
(2) Through as separately incorporated subsidiary, a bank or financial
institution may–
(a) participate in securities issues and the provision of services
related to such issues;

26 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(b) underwrite insurance;
(c) issue payment cards; and
(d) engage in any other activity related to banking business as
approved by the Bank.
(3) Any such subsidiaries shall be subject to supervision under this
Act to the same extent as the bank or financial institution, and the Bank
may require any information otherwise required with respect to such
bank or financial institution and its subsidiary to be reported separately
for each entity and on a consolidated basis.
(4) With approval of the Bank, a bank or financial institution may
engage in trade or other commercial operations that are temporarily
necessary in the conduct of its business or in the course of the satisfaction
of debts due to it.
(5) Without prejudice to preceding provisions of this section, the
Governor may, by order published in the Gazette, authorize and add to
the list of activities which banks or financial institutions may engage in
directly or through a separate subsidiary.
25.–(1) Subject to subsection (2), no bank or financial institution
shall, directly or indirectly, grant to a single person any accommodation
so that the total value of such accommodations to or on behalf of such
person is at any time more than twenty five per cent of the core capital
of the bank or financial institution, or three per cent of core capital for a
financial institution that is a micro-finance company.
(2) The Bank may establish additional limits for unsecured, partiallysecured and secured accommodations, so long as the total
accommodations to a borrower do not exceed the limit of subsection (1).
(3) The Bank shall also establish an aggregate limit for large exposures
and make any additional regulations that the Bank considers necessary
or appropriate for purposes of this section.
(4) The Bank may grant exemption to the prescribed limits on
accommodation to single person, if such accommodation is granted to,
or guaranteed by the Government of United Republic or is secured against
cash, near cash items or is guaranteed by a first class international bank
or against securities issued by the Government or the Bank.

Large
exposures

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 27

(5) In granting exemption under subsection (4), the Bank may impose
such conditions and requirements as it deems necessary to carry out the
purposes of this section.
(6) In applying the limits under this section, the amount of any equity
investment in a person that has also obtained an accommodation shall be
treated as an accommodation.
(7) Where the Bank determines that the interests of a group of two
or more persons are so interrelated that they should be considered as a
unit, then for the purposes of the limits under this section, the indebtedness
of that group shall be combined and be deemed to be in respect of a
single person.
(8) The Bank may, by regulation, define circumstances that shall
require treatment of persons with interrelated interests as a unit, which
may include but is not limited to persons who are directly or indirectly
related through family relationships, common control or where substantial
financial interdependence exists.
(9) Notwithstanding any such regulations, the Bank may, in any
individual case, make a determination based on the facts and
circumstances, that the interests of a group of two or more persons are
so interrelated that they should be considered a unit.
(10) Where in any case, the combined indebtedness of the interrelated
interests exceeds any limitations under this section, the bank or financial
institution concerned shall be permitted to dispose of the excess of such
indebtedness within such reasonable period as the Bank determines.
(11) For the purpose of this section, "accommodation" means a credit
facility given by a bank or financial institution to or on behalf of any
person which credit facility may include loans, advances, overdrafts,
lease financing, acceptances, guarantees, letters of credit, performance
bonds, foreign exchange contracts and any other form of direct or indirect
financial obligation to a bank or financial institution as defined by the
Bank, including any off-balance sheet credit facility.

Banking and Financial Institutions

28 No. 5

26.–(1) No bank or financial institution shall grant any accommodation
against the security of its own shares.
(2) Without prejudice to subsection (1)–
(a) no bank or financial institution shall grant or permit to be
granted outstanding accommodations to connected parties in
excess of such limits as may be prescribed by the Bank; or
(b) any accommodations to connected parties shall be (i)

unanimously approved by the board of directors of the
bank or financial institution;

(ii)

on the terms no more favourable than would be available
to a borrower who is not a connected party;

(iii) subject to all of the policies and procedures of the bank
or financial institution for extensions of credit, including
those relating to reviews of asset quality and adequacy
of reserves for bad and doubtful debts.
(3) The Bank shall, by regulation, prescribe the relationships between
the bank or financial institution that define the term "connected party,"
which term shall include directors, officers, significant shareholders,
companies in which any of foregoing persons have a significant interest,
family members of the foregoing persons, and affiliates of the bank or
financial institution and where a connected party has inter-related interests
with another person or persons shall be treated as a single connected
party for purposes of this section.
(4) Notwithstanding any such regulations, the Bank may in any
individual case, make a determination based on all the facts and
circumstances, that a person is a connected party with respect to a bank
or financial institution and that any accommodations to that person shall
be subject to the limits of this section and the regulations thereunder.
(5) No bank or financial institution shall grant or permit to be outstanding
to any officer or employee not covered by subsection (3), including any
spouse or child of any officer or employee, advances which in aggregate
amount for any one officer or employee, exceed the annual remuneration
of such officer or employee.

2006
Connected
lending

No. 5
Establishment,
relocation
and
closure of
banking
units

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 29

27.–(1) Any bank or financial institution may upon application and
with the approval of the Bank–
(a) establish a banking unit whether in the United Republic or
abroad; or
(b) relocate or close down the business of an existing banking
unit.
(2) In granting approval of an application to establish, relocate or
close down the business of a banking unit under subsection (1), the Bank
shall ensure that the bank or financial institution concerned has complied
with all regulatory requirements.
(3) For the purpose of this section a "banking unit" means a branch,
agency, representative office or any other office of the bank or financial
institution.

Limitation
on
investment
in
companies
engaged
in
activities
not
authorized

28.–(1) The Bank may authorize a bank or financial institution to
acquire an equity interest in an entity that is engaged in activities not
permitted for the bank or financial institution under this Act, subject to
such limits as the Bank may prescribe.
(2) The limitation may include limiting an investment in an entity to a
specified percentage of that entity's share capital, limiting an investment
in an entity to a percentage of the core capital of the bank or financial
institution making the investment, and limiting the aggregate amount of
such investments that a bank or financial institution may hold.
(3) In determining whether to permit investments under this section,
the Bank shall ensure that–
(a) the investment does not expose the bank or financial
institution to undue risks;
(b) the investment shall not hinder effective supervision;
(c) the bank or financial institution has adequate financial and
organisational resources to monitor and control any risks
arising from the investment; and

30 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(d) the bank or financial institution has internal controls, policies
and procedures adequate to ensure that the entity is legally
and operationally separate from such bank or financial
institution.
29.–(1) No bank or financial institution shall purchase, acquire or
lease fixed assets, except where it is necessary for the purpose of
conducting its business as a bank or financial institution, including
reasonable provision for anticipated future expansion and housing of its
officers or employees.

Limitation on
investment in
fixed
assets

(2) Where a bank or financial institution acquires or takes possession
of property in which it holds a security interest as a result of the default
of the person granting the security interest, the bank shall dispose of the
property as soon as is practicable.
(3) The Bank shall prescribe limits under which a bank or financial
institution shall invest in fixed assets.
30.–(1) No bank or financial institution shall, without prior written
authorization of the Bank (a) effect any voluntary merger, consolidation or other
reorganization of its business or affairs with another bank or
financial institution;
(b) transfer to any other institution the whole or any of its assets
or liabilities in the United Republic;
(c) effect a reduction of its paidup capital;
(d) alter its name;
(e) amend the instrument or charter under which it is organized
or established.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, the Bank may in
respect of any bank or financial institution advise the merger of that
bank or financial institution with any other bank or financial institution, if
the financial condition of the concerned bank or financial institution so
requires.

Bank to
authorize
voluntary
mergers

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 31

(3) Any change in the by-laws or in any other significant governance
matter shall require the approval of the Bank and be subject to the
directive of the Bank for mandatory dissolution in case of repeated or
continued non-compliance with or transgression of regulations made under
this Act.

PART VI
SUPERVISION, COORDINATION AND CONTROL
Power to
conduct
examinations of
banks and
financial
institutions

31.–(1) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in
any written law, the Bank shall have power to access to any oral and
documented information, including information in computers, books,
minutes, accounts, cash, securities, documents, vouchers as well as any
other things in the possession or custody or under the control of a bank
or financial institution or its affiliate, which relate to the business of such
bank or financial institution.
(2) The Bank may require a bank or a financial institution to produce
for examination by a person or persons in the service of or authorized by
the Bank any oral or documented information and any other things
stipulated in subsection (1).
(3) No punishment, in any form, shall affect any person providing
such information and material pursuant to subsection (2).
(4) Following conclusion of examination conducted pursuant to this
section, the Bank shall make and forward a copy of the Bank's report on
the examination to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the bank
or financial institution concerned and shall require the Chairman to submit
the report at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the bank or financial
institution concerned.
(5) The Bank shall require such bank or financial institution to provide
satisfactory explanations regarding actions to be taken on the issues
raised in the report.
(6) Any report produced by the Bank or special investigation pursuant
to subsection (4) is confidential and therefore any director, officer, or
employee of a bank or financial institution and any person who by reason

32 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

of his capacity or office has by any means access to a report produced
by the Bank shall not while holding that office, being employed in or
having a professional relationship with the bank or financial institution,
as the case may be, or after the termination thereof, communicate the
report or any part thereof to any person other than a director, an officer
or an employee of a bank or financial institution except with prior written
permission of the Bank.
(7) Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (6) commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a default fine.
(8) Where in the opinion of the Bank an examination conducted
pursuant to this section shows that the business of any bank or financial
institution is being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of
the bank or financial institution or the public interest, the Bank may–
(a) require the bank or financial institution concerned forthwith
to take such remedial measures as the Bank may direct, which
in the opinion of the Bank are necessary or desirable in the
circumstances; or
(b) appoint a person who in the opinion of the Bank is competent
to advise the bank or financial institution on the necessary
remedial measures, and every advice given by such person
shall have the same force and effect as a requirement of the
Bank made under paragraph (a) of this subsection, and for
the purposes of this section the advice shall be deemed to be
a requirement of the Bank.
(9) Every bank or financial institution required or deemed to be required
to take remedial measures under subsection (8) shall comply with every
requirement affecting its business.
(10) Where any bank or financial institution fails to comply with any
requirement of this section, the Bank may impose a penalty charge not
exceeding ten million shillings for every day during which non-compliance
continues and such charge may be recovered by deduction from any
balance of, or moneys owing to, the bank or financial institution concerned
or by suit as a civil debt.

2006

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 33

(11) The "professional relationship" as used in subsection (6) includes
a relationship between a bank or financial institution and its lawyers or
auditors, and such other relationship with a bank or financial institution
as the Bank may determine.
Submission
and
publiccation of
information

32.–(1) Every bank or financial institution and any affiliate shall furnish
to the Bank, at such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by
the Bank, such information as the Bank may require for the proper
discharge of its functions and responsibilities and the Bank may require
such information to be provided on a consolidated basis.
(2) The Bank may publish in whole or in part, at such times as may
be appropriate, information furnished pursuant to subsection (1) of this
section, but no information shall be published which would disclose the
financial affairs of any customer of a bank or financial institution unless
a written consent of the customer has first been obtained by the Bank.
(3) The Bank may require every bank or financial institution to publish
its financial statements and any other information to be prescribed by
the Bank in newspapers of general circulation in the United Republic in
such form and at such intervals as the Bank may prescribe.
(4) The Bank may impose on any bank or financial institution which
fails to furnish information required under this section, a penalty charge
of not exceeding ten million shillings per day for every day in which the
failure continues and the penalty charge may be recovered by deduction
from any balance of, or moneys owing to, the bank or financial institution
concerned, or by suit as a civil debt.
(5) Where any bank or financial institution contravenes or fails to
comply with any requirement of this section, the bank or financial institution
concerned and every officer who is in default shall be liable on conviction
to a default fine stipulated under section 66 of this Act.

Power of
the Bank
over
banks and
financial
institutions

33.–(1) The Bank may give to the Board of Directors of any bank or
financial institution, directions of a general or specific character as to the
exercise and performance of their functions and in relation to matters
appearing to the Bank to affect operations or national interest, and the
Board shall give effect to any such directions.

34 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(2) Where, in the opinion of the Bank, a bank or financial institution is
conducting its business in an unlawful, unsound manner or is otherwise
in violation of any law or regulation, the Bank may, in addition to any
other course of action open to it–
(a) require such bank or financial institution to take such measures
as it may consider necessary to rectify the situation;
(b) appoint a person who, in the opinion of the Bank, has had the
proper training and experience to advise the bank or financial
institution on measures to be taken to rectify its situation, and
shall fix his remuneration which shall be paid by the bank or
financial institution;
(c) prohibit the declaration or payment of dividends until such
situation is corrected;
(d) withhold approvals on establishment of new branches or other
expansion of operations;
(e) initiate a legally binding cease and desist order, of either
temporary or indefinite duration, specifying that the bank or
financial institution and its management either stop an
unacceptable practice or take affirmative action to cure an
undesirable condition;
(f) initiate a legally binding removal or suspension order requiring
any director or officer or other person or persons in the position
of management of a bank or financial institution to cease
participating in the affairs of the bank or financial institution
on either a temporary or permanent basis; and
(g) impose fines, consistent with the provision of this Act, on
individual directors or officers for violations of this Act,
regulations or previously issued orders from the Bank.
34.–(1) For purposes of ensuring timely action by the Bank to deal
with a weakening bank or financial institution, the Bank may prescribe a
prompt corrective action framework that specifies the actions to be taken

Prompt
corrective
action

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 35

and the actions that may be taken by the Bank as the capital level of the
bank or financial institution declines.
(2) The actions taken pursuant to subsection (1) may include a
requirement to develop and implement a capital restoration plan,
restrictions on activities or investments, removal of directors and officers,
seizure and any other action available to the Bank under this Act.
Power of
the Bank
with
respect to
affiliates
and cross
border
supervision

35.–(1) The Bank may exercise its authority with respect to any
bank or financial institution or affiliate of a bank or financial institution
whenever the Bank determines that it is necessary to implement
supervision on a consolidated basis or to otherwise effectively supervise
a bank or financial institution and the risks to which it is subjected to.
(2) To supervise organizations that operate both within the United
Republic and in any other country, the Bank may enter into arrangements
for sharing supervisory information on a reciprocal basis with the
appropriate supervisory authorities within or outside the United Republic.

PART VII
THE DEPOSIT INSURANCE FUND
Deposit
Insurance
Fund

36.–(1) There shall continue to exist the Deposit Insurance Fund to
be managed and controlled by the Deposit Insurance Board in its acronym
DIB, into which shall be paid all contributions and other payments required
by this Part to be paid into the Fund and out of which shall be made the
payments required to be made out of the Fund.
(2) The Minister may, in consultation with the Bank and by notice in
the Gazette, fix the size of the Fund sufficient to protect the interests of
depositors to be made up by the contributions under section 38 and may
authorize the DIB to borrow from the Bank or any other person such
amount as it may require for temporary purposes of making up deficiency
in the Fund pending collection of contributions.
(3) The Fund shall be made up by–
(a) moneys contributed to the Fund by banks or financial
institutions pursuant to the provisions of section 38;

36 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(b) income credited to the Fund under subsection (6);
(c) money borrowed for purposes of the Fund under subsection
(2); and
(d) moneys received as subventions, grants, donation or from any
other source as may be approved by the Board.
(4) The moneys constituting the Fund shall be placed in an account
with the Bank to be invested in obligations of, or obligations guaranteed
by, the United Republic and other obligations as determined by the DIB
to be suitable investments taking into account the purposes of the Fund.
(5) Investments in obligations other than obligations of, or obligations
guaranteed by, the United Republic may be made only pursuant to
comprehensive investment policies and procedures adopted by the DIB
to ensure that the investments are well managed and that the moneys in
the Fund will be available to cover losses as needed.
(6) Any income from the investments shall be credited to the Fund.
(7) There shall be chargeable to the Fund the administrative expenses
of the DIB, repayment of money borrowed including interest and other
charges thereon by the Fund, and payments made in respect of protected
deposits.
(8) The DIB shall be exempted from payment of any taxes, levies or
duties in respect of its profits, transactions and operations.
37.–(1) There shall continue to exist the Deposit Insurance Board
responsible for policy formulation in connection with the Fund and for
the management and control of the Fund.
(2) The DIB shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and
shall have the power to acquire, own, possess and dispose of property, to
contract, sue and to be sued in its own name.
(3) The Board of DIB shall consist of –
(a) the Governor of the Bank who shall be the Chairman;

Deposit
Insurance
Board

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 37

(b) the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury;
(c) the Principal Secretary to the Ministry responsible for finance
of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar; and
(d) three other members appointed by the Minister at least one
of whom shall hail from either side of the United Republic.
(4) Each member appointed by the Minister shall be chosen from
among persons of good standing and experience in business, professional
or academic matters and shall be of suitable character and experience
to carry out responsibilities of the DIB.
(5) No person shall be appointed to the Board or continue to serve on
the Board, if such person–
(a) is a director, officer or employee of a bank or financial
institution;
(b) is a member of National Assembly, the House of
Representatives or a local government authority;
(c) is an office bearer of any of the political parties registered in
the United Republic;
(d) owns or controls a significant interest in shares of a bank or
financial institution; or
(e) is a person who is disqualified under section 12.
(6) Each member of the Board shall disclose in writing to the DIB all
accounts, loans or other material contracts or agreements between such
member and an insured bank or financial institution.
(7) A member appointed by the Minister shall hold office, unless he
sooner dies, resigns, vacates or is removed from office for good cause,
for a term of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for one
additional term.
(8) The Board shall meet as often as the business of DIB may require
but not less than once in each quarter of a year.

38 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(9) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, the DIB
may provide for regular meetings for which no notice shall be necessary,
and for special meetings to be convened at the written request of the
Governor or any two other members, for which special meetings notice
shall be required.
(10) A quorum at any meeting shall consist of three members including
the Chairman.
(11) The Bank shall make available to DIB such facilities and the
services of such officers as are necessary for the proper and efficient
exercise of the functions of DIB.
(12) Except as otherwise provided by the provisions of this Part, the
Board shall determine its own procedures.
38.–(1) Every bank or financial institution which is licensed to carry
on banking business in the United Republic shall be a contributor to the
Fund and shall pay into the Fund such annual amount and at such times,
as DIB may determine.
(2) Where DIB is satisfied that a savings, credit society or scheme to
which the Bank has extended the application of the provisions of this
Act accept deposits of money from the public repayable on demand or
after notice and employs such deposits in whole or in part by lending or
any other means for the account and at the risk of the person accepting
the deposits, such savings, credit society or scheme shall be a contributor
to the Fund and the provisions of this Part shall apply mutatis mutandis
to that savings or credit society or scheme.
(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as rendering the
savings or credit society or scheme to become a bank or financial
institution for the purposes of this Act.
(4) DIB shall serve on a bank or financial institution a notice specifying
the amount and the period which shall not be later than twenty one days
after the date of service of the notice, within which the amount shall be
paid into the Fund by the bank or financial institution.
(5) The amount of a contribution to the Fund under this section shall

Contributions to
the Fund

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 39

not be less than one percent of the average of the bank, financial institution
or as the case may be, savings, credit society or scheme total deposit
liabilities during the period of twelve months prior to the date of the
notice served under subsection (4) but the Minister may, after consultation
with the DIB, and by order published in the Gazette, amend the minimum
and maximum amounts of contributions prescribed by this subsection.
(6) A bank or financial institution which for any reason fails to pay
contribution to the Fund within the period specified in a notice served
pursuant to the provisions of subsection (4), shall be liable to pay to the
Fund a penalty interest charge not exceeding one-half per cent of the
unpaid amount for every day outside the notice period on which the
amount remains unpaid.
Protection
of
deposits
and
payments
out of the
Fund

39.–(1) The amount being the aggregate credit balance of any accounts
maintained by a customer at a bank or financial institution less any liability
of the customer to the bank or financial institution shall, by order published
in the Gazette, be a protected deposit to the extent determined by the
Minister from time to time.
(2) A customer of a bank or financial institution may lodge a claim
with DIB, in such form as DIB may approve, for payment to him out of
the Fund of any protected deposit as determined pursuant to subsection
(1), where–
(a) the bank or financial institution has commenced a voluntary
liquidation;
(b) the Bank has initiated liquidation of a bank or financial
institution; or
(c) the Bank imposes a moratorium.
(3) The DIB may, before paying any claim lodged pursuant to
subsection (2), require the claimant to furnish it with such documentary
proof as may be proper to show that he is entitled to payment out of the
Fund; and the DIB may decline to make any payment under this section
to a person who, in the opinion of the DIB, had any responsibility for, or
may have profited directly or indirectly from the circumstances leading
up to the bank or financial institution becoming insolvent.

40 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(4) The DIB may require a bank or financial institution to submit
information in such form and frequency as may be required from time to
time.
(5) Notwithstanding subsections (3) and (4), the DIB may request
the Bank to carry out inspections under the authority of section 31 to
ascertain the type, number and values of the protected deposits which,
but for the insolvency would be payable by an insolvent bank or financial
institution and information obtained following inspection shall, subject to
section 31, be made available by the Bank to the DIB.
(6) Upon payment of protected deposit the Fund shall be entitled to
receive from the bank or financial institution or liquidator, as the case
may be, an amount equal to the insolvency payment paid by the Fund on
account of its subrogation to the claims of any customer or depositor.
(7) For purposes of this Part, "deposit" does not include a sum paid
by–
(a) a licensed bank or financial institution or any other person in
the course of carrying on a money-lending business;
(b) one company to another at a time when the company are
associated with each other or affiliated;
(c) a person who, at the time when it is paid, is in a close family
relation with the person receiving it; or
(d) a person who, at the time it is paid, is a director, manager or a
shareholder of the person receiving it.
(8) For the purposes of this section "customer" includes persons entitled
to a deposit as trustees or persons holding any deposits jointly but does
not include a bank or financial institution, a Government, government
agency or instrumentality, an investment company or securities firm or
any person who is a connected person referred to under section 26.
40.–(1) The DIB shall maintain a current list of all bank or financial
institutions which contribute to the Fund and whose deposits are protected
to the extent provided for under section 39.

Identification of
institutions
whose
deposits
are
insured

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 41

(2) The DIB shall undertake to make the list available to the public
and to provide such other information as is necessary or appropriate so
that depositors can determine the extent of coverage under this Part for
any deposit accounts maintained at a bank or financial institution.
(3) No bank or financial institution may indicate that its deposits are
insured or use any reference to the Fund in its signage or business literature
or otherwise, except as specifically permitted by the DIB.
Role of
Deposit
Insurance
Board as
Liquidator

Cap. 212

41. Notwithstanding any other written law –
(a) where a bank or financial institution becomes insolvent, as
determined by the Bank, the Bank may appoint the DIB to be
a liquidator and the appointment shall have the same effect
as the appointment of any other liquidator by the court and
such liquidation shall proceed in accordance with the provisions
of liquidation regulations made under this Act;
(b) no other liquidator of a bank or financial institution shall be
appointed under the provisions of the Companies Act and
Companies Decree if the DIB has already been appointed as
a liquidator, and no liquidator of a bank or financial institution
shall be appointed in any event without the approval of the
High Court;
(c) the High Court shall require the Bank to certify that the Bank
does not intend to exercise its powers or may fail to exercise
its powers within such period not exceeding three months as
may be prescribed by the High Court; and

Cap. 212

Annual
report of
Deposit
Insurance
Board
activities

(d) where a liquidator of a bank or financial institution has been
appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act
and Companies Decree the Bank may apply to the High Court
for an order that the liquidator be removed and the DIB be
appointed as liquidator in the first mentioned liquidator's place.
42.–(1) The DIB shall, within three months after the close of each
financial year, submit an annual report of its operations to the Minister.
(2) The financial year of the DIB shall be the same as the Bank's
financial year.

42 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

PART VIII
SPECIAL DUTIES OF BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
43.–(1) It shall be unlawful for a director, officer or employee of a
bank or financial institution who knows or in the proper performance of
his duties, ought to know that the bank or financial institution is insolvent
to receive or authorize the acceptance of a deposit while such bank or
financial institution is insolvent.

Prohibition on
taking
deposits
while
insolvent

(2) The bank or financial institution which fails to comply with this
section and every officer of such bank or financial institution who is in
default shall be liable to a default fine.
44.–(1) Every bank or financial institution shall at all times exhibit the
licence in a conspicuous position in the public part of its principal place
of business and shall similarly exhibit copies of such licence in each of its
banking units.

Exhibition
of
licenses

(2) The bank or financial institution which fails to comply with this
section and every officer of such bank or financial institution who is in
default shall be liable to a default fine.
45.–(1) Every bank or financial institution shall at all times exhibit a
copy of its last audited financial statements including notes to the accounts,
in a conspicuous position in the public part of its principal place of business
and shall similarly exhibit copies of such financial statements in each of
its banking units.

Exhibition
of
financial
statements

(2) Every bank or financial institution shall at all times make available
to the public a full set of the last audit report at its principal place of
business and in all of its banking units.
(3) The bank or financial institution which fails to comply with this
section, the bank or financial institution and every officer of such bank
or financial institution who is in default shall be liable to a default fine.
46.–(1) Every bank or financial institution that holds any of the
abandoned property enumerated in section 47 shall, at the end of each
calendar year surrender such property to the Bank.

Bank to
deal with
abandoned
property

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 43

(2) Upon surrender of abandoned property, the bank or financial
institution shall be relieved of all liability to the value of the property for
any claim in respect of such property.
(3) The Bank shall dispose of all abandoned property, surrendered to
it in accordance with the provisions of the relevant law applicable in the
United Republic.
(4) Any bank or financial institution which fails to deliver property
presumed to be abandoned into the custody of the Bank commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten
million shillings.
Abandoned
property

47.–(1) The following items held or owing by a bank or financial
institution shall, unless dealt with as specified in subsection (2) be
presumed to have been abandoned–
(a) any general deposit including demand, savings or matured
time deposit made in the United Republic with a bank or
financial institution, together with any accrued interest or
dividend but excluding any lawful charges;
(b) any funds paid in the United Republic toward the purchase of
shares or other interest in a bank or financial institution,
together with any accrued interest or dividend excluding any
lawful charges;
(c) any sum payable on a cheque certified in the United Republic
or written instruments issued in the United Republic to which
a bank or financial institution is directly liable; and
(d) any contents of a safe deposit box upon which the lease or
rental period has expired and concerning which any bank or
financial institution has sent a notice, by registered letter to
the last known address of the lessee and to which notice the
lessee has failed to respond within one year.
(2) All matters referred to under subsection (1) shall not be presumed
to have been abandoned if, within fifteen years of the date of deposit,
payment of funds or issuance of instruments, as the case may be, the
owner has–

44 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(a) increased or decreased the amount of the deposit or funds or
presented the passbook or other record for the crediting of
interest or dividends in respect of the matters set forth in
paragraphs (a) and (b);
(b) corresponded in writing with the bank or financial institution
concerning the matters; or
(c) otherwise indicated an interest in the items as evidenced by a
memorandum written by the bank or financial institution
concerning the matters.
48.–(1) Every bank or financial institution shall observe, except as
otherwise required by law, the practices and usages customary among
bankers, and in particular, shall not divulge any information relating to its
customers or their affairs except in circumstances in which, in accordance
with the law or practices and usages customary among bankers, it is
necessary or appropriate for the bank or financial institution to divulge
such information.
(2) Every director and every member of any committee, auditor,
advisor, manager, officer, and employee of a bank or financial institution
shall, before assuming his duties, make a written declaration of fidelity
and secrecy, which shall be witnessed by the Chief Executive Officer or
the Secretary of the bank or financial institution concerned.
(3) Except as otherwise required by law, nothing in this Act shall–
(a) authorize an enquiry to be made into the affairs of any
individual customer of a bank or financial institution;
(b) prevent the Bank or financial institution from releasing
information to credit reference bureau, in accordance with
regulation issued by the Bank; or
(c) prevent a licensed credit reference bureau from providing to
any person upon a legitimate business request, a credit report
in which case a copy may be given to the customer concerned
in accordance with regulation issued by the Bank.
(4) The Bank shall not, unless lawfully required to do so by law,
reveal to any person–

Fidelity
and
secrecy

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 45

(a) any information as to the affairs of any individual customer
of a bank or financial institution obtained in the exercise of
its regulatory and supervisory functions whether under this
or any other law;
(b) a record contained in or related to a report of examination or
other confidential supervisory information prepared by, on
behalf of, or for the use of the Bank or any other agency
responsible for regulating or supervising banks or financial
institutions; or
(c) a record that contains trade secrets, commercial or financial
information, furnished in confidence, that relates to the
business, personal or financial affairs of any person, the release
of which could cause competitive harm to such person.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the Bank may disclose any
information to another agency responsible for regulating or supervising
banks or financial institutions consequent upon information sharing
agreement made pursuant to section 35 whether in the United Republic
or abroad, so long as that information is needed and is to be used for
supervisory purposes and that its confidentiality will be maintained.
(6) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section commits
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty
million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years
or to both.
Fair lending and
collection
practices

49.–(1) A borrower of a bank or financial institution shall be permitted
to make partial or total prepayment on a loan or advance.
(2) Any penalty for prepayment shall be incorporated in the contract.
(3) Any term stipulated in a contract purporting to grant to any bank
or financial institution authority to introduce unilateral modifications to
interest rates or other loan conditions shall be null and void.
(4) A loan contract may establish an indexed interest rate designed
to vary in line with a reference rate as published by the Bank.

46 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

PART IX
LIQUIDATION, SEIZURE AND REORGANIZATION
50.–(1) Any bank or financial institution may, with the approval of
the Bank, voluntarily liquidate its operations in accordance with the
provisions of its constitution and the provisions of this Part.

Voluntary
liquidation

(2) The Bank shall grant approval of a voluntary liquidation on such
terms and conditions as it may determine where it appears that the bank
or financial institution is solvent and has sufficient liquid assets to repay
its depositors and creditors in full and without delay.
51.–(1) Where a bank or financial institution gets approval of the
Bank in accordance with section 50, the bank or financial institution
shall–
(a) immediately cease all activities, except those which are
incidental to the orderly realization, conservation and
preservation of its assets and the settlement of its obligations;
(b) immediately surrender licence to the Bank for revocation;
(c) repay in full its depositors and creditors; and
(d) wind up operations.
(2) When a bank or financial institution is in the process of voluntary
liquidation, it shall be subject to supervision by the Bank in such manner
as the Bank shall prescribe.
(3) In the event of voluntary liquidation–
(a) liability of the shareholders for uncalled or unpaid subscriptions
to the capital stock of the bank or financial institution
concerned shall continue until all claims of creditors, including
all contingent claims, shall have been discharged;
(b) all creditors holding direct claims shall first be paid out of the
assets of the bank or financial institutions concerned and then
out of payments to the bank or financial institution concerned
on uncalled or unpaid subscriptions;

Duties of
a bank or
financial
institution
on
voluntary
liquidation

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 47

(c) before making any payments to depositors and other creditors
holding direct claims, the Board of Directors of the bank or
institution concerned shall, with the approval of the Bank,
make such arrangements as are necessary, in the judgment
of the Board, to ensure a pro rata distribution among holders
of claims; and

Cap. 212

Notice of
voluntary
liquidation

(d) contingent claims shall be treated as claims to the same extent
as provided for under the Companies Act and companies
Decree
52.–(1) Within fourteen days after receiving approval of the Bank
for voluntary liquidation, a bank or financial institution shall provide notice
of intention for voluntary liquidation to–
(a) every depositor and other creditor of the bank or financial
institution; and
(b) any person otherwise entitled to any funds or property held
by the bank or financial institution as a trustee, fiduciary, lessor
of a safe-keeping facility or bailee.
(2) A notice for the purpose of subsection (1) shall set forth such
information as the Bank may require and shall be provided within the
time frame established by the Bank.
(3) The bank or financial institution shall provide the required notice
by mailing a copy of the notice to the most recent address shown in its
records for each customer or creditor of the bank or financial institution
as described in subsection (1).
(4) A copy of the bank or financial institution's notice shall be kept
displayed in a conspicuous place in the public part of each banking unit
of the bank or financial institution, and the bank or financial institution
shall publish it in the Gazette and in a newspaper of general circulation
within the United Republic.

-Rights

of
depositors
and
creditors

53.–(1) Approval of the Bank for voluntary winding up or dissolution
of a bank or financial institution shall not prejudice the rights of a depositor
or other creditor to payment in full of a claim nor the right of the owner
of funds or other property held by the bank or financial institution to the
return thereof.

48 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(2) All lawful claims shall be paid promptly and all funds and other
property held by the bank or financial institution shall be returned to their
rightful owners within such minimum period as the Bank may in writing
direct.
54.–(1) Where, in the opinion of the Bank, a bank or financial
institution has discharged all the obligations referred to under section 51,
the remainder of its property shall be distributed to its rightful owner or
owners.

Distribution of
assets on
voluntary
liquidation

(2) Distribution made pursuant to subsection (1) shall not be made
before–
(a) all claims of depositors and other creditors have been paid in
full or, in the case of a disputed claim, the bank or financial
institution has turned over to the Bank funds sufficient in the
opinion of the Bank, to meet any liability that may be judicially
determined; and
(b) any funds payable to a depositor or other creditor who has
not claimed them have been turned over to the Bank to be
dealt with as unclaimed funds in accordance with this Act.
55.–(1) Where the Bank determines that the assets of a bank or
financial institution which is under voluntary liquidation may not be
sufficient for the full discharge of its obligations, the Bank shall take
possession of the bank or financial institution concerned.

Seizure
during
voluntary
liquidation

(2) Where the Bank determines that completion of liquidation of the
operations of a bank or financial institution is unduly delayed, may take
possession of the bank or financial institution concerned.
(3) Where the Bank takes possession of a bank or financial institution,
it shall take necessary measures leading to the compulsory liquidation of
the bank or financial institution concerned in conformity with the provisions
of this Act.
56.–(1) The Bank may take possession of any bank or financial
institution if –
(a) the bank or financial institution refuses to comply with an
order or directive of the Bank;

Seizure in
other
circumstances

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 49

(b) the bank or financial institution refuses to submit to or
otherwise obstruct any inspection by the Bank;
(c) the licence of the bank or financial institution has been
revoked;
(d) the bank or financial institution ceases to be an insured
institution by the DIB;
Cap. 256
and 21 of
2002

(e) the bank or financial institution has been adjudicated guilty
of an offence under the Proceeds of Crime Act, or
Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002;
(f) the Bank has not approved voluntary liquidation; or
(g) in the opinion of the Bank–
(i)

the capital of the bank or financial institution has fallen
below the minimums required;

(ii)

the bank or financial institution is insolvent; or

(iii) the bank or financial institution is conducting its business
in violation of any law or regulation, or is engaging in
any unsafe or unsound practice that is likely to cause
insolvency or substantial dissipation of assets or serious
prejudice to the interests of depositors or the Deposit
Insurance Fund.
(2) The Bank shall take possession of any bank or financial institution
that is undercapitalized, if, in the opinion of the Bank, the bank or financial
institution–
(a) has no reasonable prospect of becoming adequately
capitalized;
(b) has failed to become adequately capitalized when required to
do so by the Bank;
(c) has failed to submit a capital restoration plan acceptable to
the Bank when required pursuant to section 34; or
(d) has failed to materially implement a capital restoration plan
accepted by the Bank.

50 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(3) The Bank shall prescribe capital levels at which a bank or financial
institution shall be adequately capitalized or undercapitalized for purposes
of this section.
57.–(1) Where the Bank takes possession of any bank or financial
institution in accordance with the provisions of this Act–

Consequences of
seizure

(a) any term, whether statutory, contractual or otherwise, on the
expiration of which a claim or right of the relevant bank or
financial institution would expire or be extinguished, shall be
extended by six months from the date of seizure;
(b) no attachment or lien, except a lien created by the Bank in
carrying out authority of the Bank under this Act or the Bank
of Tanzania Act, 2006 shall attach to any property or assets
of the bank or financial institution concerned so long as
possession by the Bank continues;
(c) no action or proceeding may be commenced by creditors of
the bank or financial institution under the provisions of the
Companies Act, relating to impending or actual insolvency or
under any other law regarding insolvency or bankruptcy;
(d) any transfer of asset of the relevant bank or financial institution
made after or in contemplation of its insolvency or the seizure
with intent to effect a preference shall be voidable by the
Bank; and
(e) any attachment or lien except for a lien existing six months
prior to the seizure of the relevant bank or financial institution
may be vacated by the Bank.
(2) The Bank shall have power to declare a moratorium on the payment
by the bank or financial institution of its depositors and other creditors
save that declaration of a moratorium shall–
(a) be applied equally and without discrimination to all classes of
creditors provided that the Bank may offset the deposits or
other liabilities owed by the institution to any depositor or
other creditor against any loans or other debts owed by that
depositor or creditor to the institution;

Cap.212

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 51

(b) suspend execution of attachments or liens;
(c) suspend the running of time for the purposes of any law of
limitation in respect of any claim by any depositor or creditor
of the institution; and
(d) cease to apply upon the termination of the Bank's possession,
whereupon the rights and obligations of the institution, its
depositors and creditors shall, save to the extent provided in
paragraphs (b) and (c), be the same as if there had been no
declaration.
Power of
the Bank
upon
seizure

58.–(1) Upon entering into possession of a bank or financial institution,
the Bank shall–
(a) be vested with the full and exclusive power of management
and control of the affairs of the relevant bank or financial
institution including all rights, titles, powers, and privileges of
the bank or financial institution, and of any shareholder, account
holder, depositor, officer or director of such bank or financial
institution with respect to that bank or financial institution and
the assets of that bank or financial institution; and
(b) have title to the books, records, and assets of a bank or
financial institution and their affiliates held by any previous
statutory manager or other legal custodian of such bank or
financial institution.
(2) The Bank's powers shall include powers to–
(a) continue or discontinue operations as a bank or financial
institution, notwithstanding that its licence has been revoked;
(b) stop or limit the payment of its obligations;
(c) employ any necessary staff;
(d) discontinue employment of any staff of a bank or financial
institution;
(e) execute any instrument in the name of the relevant bank or
financial institution;

52 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(f) initiate, defend and conduct in its name any action or
proceeding to which the bank or financial institution may be a
party;
(g) merge the bank or financial institution with another bank or
financial institution;
(h) transfer any asset or liability of the bank or financial institution,
including assets and liabilities held in trust, without any
approval, assignment or consent with respect to such transfer;
and
(i) reorganize or liquidate the bank or financial institution in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.
59.–(1) The Bank shall, upon assuming the management, control and
conduct of the affairs and business of a bank or financial institution,
discharge its duties with diligence and in accordance with sound banking
and financial principles and, in particular, with due regard to the interests
of the bank or financial institution, its depositors and other creditors.
(2) The Bank shall take action with a view to–
(a) tracing and preserving all the property and assets of the bank
or financial institution;
(b) recovering all debts and other sums of money due to and
owing to the bank or financial institution; and
(c) obtaining from any officers or employees of the bank or
financial institution any documents, record, accounts,
statements or information relating to its business.
(3) As soon as possible after taking possession, the Bank shall–
(a) make an inventory of the assets and liabilities of the bank or
financial institution and shall make a copy of such inventory
available for examination by all interested parties; and
(b) evaluate the capital structure and management of the bank
or financial institution and determine whether all or any part
of the operations of the bank or financial institution are viable

Management by
the Bank

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 53

and may continue, either in the bank or financial institution or
through transfer to another bank or financial institution in
accordance with the resolution plan established by the Bank.
(4) Within ninety days after taking possession, the Bank shall–
(a) determine whether to restructure, reorganize or liquidate the
bank or financial institution; and
(b) establish a plan of resolution based upon any combination of
restructuring, reorganization or liquidation of the bank or
financial institution that provides for expeditious resolution.
(5) The Bank shall ensure that the resolution plan reflects the least
costly method by ensuring that–
(a) the plan maximizes the net present value return from the sale
or disposition of any assets;
(b) the plan minimizes the amount of any loss realized in the
resolution; and
(c) the total cost of expenditures and obligations by the Bank and
the Deposit Insurance Fund do not exceed the cost of
liquidating the bank or financial institution and paying off all
depositors to the extent provided for under this Act.
(6) The resolution plan shall ensure adequate competition, fair and
consistent treatment of offerors that seek to acquire assets of the bank
or financial institution.
(7) The Bank may disclose confidential information of the bank or
financial institution to offerors subject to a confidentiality agreement after
it has determined that the offeror has the interest and the resources to
participate in a restructuring.
(8) The shareholders of a seized bank or financial institution shall
have no rights with respect to shares, except to the extent prescribed by
the Bank where the bank or financial institution is not liquidated as a
result of the seizure.

54 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(9) In carrying out responsibilities under this section, the Bank may
utilize the services of private persons if the Bank determines that doing
so is the most practicable, efficient and cost effective.
60. The Bank may establish and own temporarily, a new bank or
financial institution which may acquire part or all of the assets and liabilities
of a bank or financial institution on the basis of the resolution plan.

Bridge
bank or
financial
institution

61.–(1) Where the resolution plan calls for liquidation of the bank or
financial institution, then the liquidation shall proceed in terms of the
provisions of section 41 and such regulations as the Governor may make.

Compulsory
liquidation

(2) Amounts realized under the resolution plan shall be used to pay
claims, other than secured claims, to the extent of any security, in the
following order of priority–
(a) administrative expenses;
(b) any deposit liability of the bank or financial institution;
(c) any other general or senior liability of the bank or financial
institution;
(d) any obligation subordinated to depositors or general creditors;
and
(e) any obligation to shareholders.
(3) The provisions of the Companies Act, and any other relevant
applicable law shall apply only to the extent not inconsistent with this
Part and any liquidation regulations, directives and circulars issued by
the Governor.

Cap.212

62. No proceedings commenced in court seeking a review of any
action taken by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this Part shall
restrain the doing or nullify any action done or taken before an order of
the court to the contrary was issued.

Judicial
review

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 55

PART X
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICES OF FOREIGN BANKS OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Representative
offices of
foreign
banks or
financial
institutions

63.–(1) Upon application made in writing, the Bank may, in writing
and subject to such conditions as it may consider necessary, authorize a
bank or financial institution incorporated outside the United Republic
which does not propose to transact banking business in the United
Republic, to establish representative office in the United Republic.
(2) The Bank may require a representative office to furnish to it, at
such time and in such manner, such information as the Bank may require.
(3) Where a representative office is required to furnish information
under subsection (2), it shall furnish that information and any supplemental
material that may be required as a result of that information within the
period specified in the direction or within such reasonable period as may
be agreed upon.
(4) The Bank may at any time where it appears to it that a
representative office is engaged in banking or financial business or that
the affairs of a representative office are being conducted contrary to
any condition in respect of which authority was granted pursuant to the
provisions of subsection (1) or in a manner detrimental to banking business
in the United Republic–
(a) issue directions to the representative office to take such
corrective action as the Bank considers to be necessary within
such period as may be specified in the directives; or
(b) order that the affairs of the representative office in the United
Republic be wound up and the office be closed within such
time as the Bank may direct, if such representative office
fails to comply with directions of the Bank.
PART XI
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Declaration
of bank
holidays

64.–(1) Where the Bank considers that it is in the public interest that
banks or financial institutions or particular bank or institution or a particular
banking unit should remain closed on a day which is not a public holiday
it may, by notice in the Gazette, declare any day or days to be a bank

56 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

holiday for all banks and financial institutions or for a particular bank or
financial institution or banking unit, as the case may be, and every bank
and financial institution or that particular banking unit shall remain closed
on that day.
(2) Where, upon application made by a bank or financial institution,
the Bank is satisfied that it is necessary for that bank or financial institution
or banking unit to remain closed on any day or days, it may authorize that
bank or financial institution or banking unit, as the case may be, to be
closed on that day or days subject to such terms and conditions as the
Bank may prescribe.
(3) A bank holiday declared under subsection (1) may not be a public
holiday and nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the provisions
of the Public Holidays Act.
(4) Any reference in any written law to a bank holiday shall include
any day declared under this section to be a bank holiday and any day
which is a public holiday within the meaning of the Public Holidays Act.
65.–(1) Where the Bank has reason to believe that any person is
accepting deposits or otherwise doing banking business without being a
bank or financial institution authorized under the provisions of this Act,
the Bank may call for and examine the books, accounts, and records of
such person in order to ascertain the legality of such operations.
(2) Any person who refuses or fails to make available for examination
such books, accounts and records after having been duly requested to
do so by the Bank, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding twenty million shillings and, where the person is
not a corporate body, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five
years.
(3) In addition to conviction made pursuant to subsection (2), the
Bank may issue directive to repay any funds that such person has obtained
in the course of unlawfully doing such business or receiving such money.
(4) Where any corporate body contravenes the provisions of this
section, every director and officer thereof shall, unless he proves that
the contravention occurred without his knowledge and consent, be liable

Cap.35

Cap.35
Penalty
for doing
unauthorized
business

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006 57

on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten million shillings or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding five years or to both.
66.–(1) Where by any provision of this Act it is provided that a bank
or a financial institution and every director and officer who is in default
shall be liable to default fine, the relevant bank or financial institution and
every director or officer concerned shall, for every day during which the
default or contravention continues, be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding five million shillings.

Default
fines

(2) In any proceedings against a person alleged to be a director or
officer who is in default, it shall be a good defence–
(a) in the case of non-compliance with any provision of this Act,
to prove that he had reasonable grounds to believe that a
competent and reliable person was responsible for complying
with the particular requirement and was in a position to
discharge that responsibility; or
(b) in the case of contravention of any provision of this Act, to
prove that the contravention occurred without his knowledge
and consent unless, having regard to the duties of his office,
he ought to have known such contravention.
67.–(1) The Bank shall have powers to prescribe and impose civil
penalties on any bank or financial institution or institution-related party
which–
(a) violates any provision of this Act or any regulation issued
under this Act;
(b) violates any directive or circular issued by the Bank under
this Act; or
(c) violates any condition imposed in writing in connection with
the grant of any licence or any other request by the bank or
financial institution.
(2) Any penalty imposed under this Part may be assessed and collected
by the Bank by written notice.

Civil
money
penalties

58 No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

2006

(3) The Bank shall provide opportunity to be heard to a bank or
financial institution or other person against whom any penalty is assessed
if requested within twenty days after the issuance of the written notice.
(4) Where a hearing is not requested or after a hearing have taken
place and the Bank does not revoke the assessment, the assessment
shall constitute a final order.
(5) The Bank may revoke the banking licence of such bank or financial
institution which fails to pay an assessment that had become final.
(6) For purposes of this section, "institution related party" means any
director, officer, employee or controlling shareholder of a bank or financial
institution.
Power of
Governor
on
waivers

68. The Governor may, where he considers it necessary waive
compliance or penalty for non compliance of the provisions of this Act
or regulations, direction or circular made or issued under this Act.

Immunity

69. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no action or
other proceedings shall lie or be instituted against any member of the
Board of the Bank or any employee of the Bank for or in respect of any
act or thing done or omitted to be done in good faith in the exercise or
purported exercise as are conferred by this Act.

Restrictions
on
employment

70. No member of the management of the Bank who exercises
decision making authority with respect to the exercise of any supervisory
authority regarding the Bank or financial institutions may hold any office,
position or employment in any bank or financial institution while serving
as member of management and during the two year period from the
date when such a member ceases to be a member of management.

Regulations,
Directives,
and
circulars

71. The Governor may make regulations and issue directives and
circulars for carrying out or giving effect to the purposes and provisions
of this Act, which may include but are not limited to additional prudential
guidelines or requirements not expressly mentioned in this Act.

Repeal
Cap. 342

72.–(1) The Banking and Financial Institutions Act, is hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) any regulations or circulars

No. 5

Banking and Financial Institutions

promulgated or adopted pursuant to the provisions of the Banking and
Financial Institutions Act, shall remain in force and effect except to the
extent such regulations are inconsistent with express provisions of this
Act, until such time as they are revoked or cancelled.
Passed in the National Assembly on the 5th April, 2006.

................................................
Clerk of the National Assembly

2006 59

Cap. 342

