The Electronic and Postal Communications
(Online Content) Regulations, 2020
LEGAL ALERT

ALGERIA
ETHIOPIA
GUINEA
KENYA
MADAGASCAR
MALAWI
MAURITIUS
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
NIGERIA
RWANDA
SUDAN
TANZANIA
UGANDA
ZAMBIA
•••
UAE

Introduction
In July 2020, the Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority
(the TCRA) issued the Electronic and Postal Communications
(Online Content) Regulations, 2020 (the Regulations), which
are now in force and revoke the Electronic and Postal
Communications (Online Content) Regulations, 2018 (the 2018
Regulations).
In this legal alert, we have analysed the implications of the
Regulations on issues relating to:
1.

Which stakeholders the Regulations apply to

2.

License categories

3.

Restrictions on prohibited content

4.

Complaint handling and liability

5.

The Cyber Crimes Act, 2015

While the Regulations in large part mirror the 2018 Regulations,
there are a handful of changes that are particularly important
for stakeholders, users of online content and licensed and nonlicensed hosts and providers of online content services. The
expansive description in the Regulations of what constitutes
prohibited content coupled with the potential liability that may
attach for failure to comply with certain directives requires
stakeholders to carefully assess their practices and procedures
from a compliance perspective. Although the Regulations are
an improvement on the 2018 Regulations, in terms of offering
clarity on certain previously vague provisions, they still leave
several key questions open to interpretation.

Who do the Regulations Apply to?
The Regulations apply to users1, online content service providers2, internet service
providers, and application services licensees3. The regulations also apply to ‘any other
related online content,’ which extends the scope of application to all online content
that is accessible to or by the public, whether for a fee or otherwise, and which is
intended for consumption in or originated from Tanzania.
Although the application of the Regulations is quite broad, it is interesting to note that
the introduction of a new definition of ‘content’ carves out private communications.
The Regulations define ‘content’ to mean information in the form of speech or other
sound, data, text or images whether still or moving except where transmitted in
private communications.
In addition, whereas the 2018 Regulations did not define ‘online content providers,’
the Regulations have defined ‘online content service’ to mean content broadcasting
to the public through internet websites, application software, forums, blogs,
weblogs, microblogs, public account, instant messaging tools, online live streaming,
aggregators and other related platforms. The addition of this definition finally offers
clarity as to what constitutes an online content service. In line with the definition of
‘content,’ which carves out private communications, we note that the definition of
online content service also expressly refers to content ‘broadcasting to the public’,
suggesting that the legislative intent is not to cover private communications.

License Categories
The Regulations prohibit a person from providing ‘online content services’ without
obtaining a license from the TCRA. Four categories of licenses have been introduced:4
a.

licences predominantly for provision of news and current affairs issued to an
online content service provider whose content covers news, events and current
affairs;

b.

licences predominantly for provision of entertainment content issued to an
online content service provider whose content covers music, movies, series,
plays, drama, comedy, sports and any other related entertainment content;

c.

licences predominantly for provision of education and religious content issued to
an online content service provider whose content covers religious information
and content that aims at educating; and

1

Under the Regulations, ‘users’ means a person or legal entity accessing online content whether by

subscription or otherwise.
2

Under the Regulations, ‘online content service provider’ means a person who provides online content

service.
3

Under the Regulations, ‘application services licensee’ means a licensee of the TCRA in the category

of application services license limited to only the provisions of online content or facilitation of online
content producers.
4

For the purpose of the licensing categories, ‘predominant’ means content not below 85 percent of the

licensed category measured every week.

1

d.

simulcasting5 licences issued to mainstream broadcasters with national coverage
rights.

The specific license categories, the list of documents that must accompany the
application (tax identification number, tax clearance certificate, national identity
card, etc.), and the application form and fee schedule set out in the First and Second
Schedules of the Regulations, respectively, suggest that the Regulations are aimed
at requiring local online content service providers to be registered with the TCRA.
Although the licensing provisions do not appear to extend to foreign online platforms
such as YouTube or Twitter, which as far as we are aware are not registered with
the TCRA, the Regulations do still impose certain obligations on such entities to
the extent that their content is accessible to or by the Tanzanian public. How the
Regulations would practically apply to such international entities remains unclear.

Restrictions Relating to Prohibited
Content
Prohibited Content
The Regulations define prohibited content more broadly than the 2018 Regulations.
The Third Schedule to the Regulations sets out detailed descriptions of what
constitutes prohibited content for the purposes of the Regulations (Prohibited
Content, with such descriptions falling into the following categories:
i.

sexuality and decency

ii.

personal privacy and respect to human dignity

iii.

public security, violence and national safety

iv.

criminal activities and illegal trade activities

v.

health and public safety

vi.

protection of intellectual property rights

vii. respect to religion and personal beliefs
viii. public information that may cause public havoc and disorder
ix.

use of bad language and disparaging words

x.

false, untrue (misleading content)

It is important for online content users, online content service providers, internet
service providers, application services licensees and online content hosts to familiarise
themselves with the Third Schedule to ensure compliance with the Regulations.

5

‘Simulcasting’ means broadcasting content of a mainstream media on an online platform. An ‘online

platform’ means any internet outlet where people can get news, entertainment, education, religious or
other related information such as online television, radio, social media and blogs.

2

Obligations on Licensees and Non-licensees
The Regulations unequivocally subject licensees, subscribers and users of online
content to content-related restrictions. Understandably, the requirements applicable
to licensees are more onerous and licensees are subject to several obligations,
including ensuring that online content is safe, secure and does not contravene the
provisions of any written law, using moderating tools to filter Prohibited Content,
taking corrective measures for objectionable or Prohibited Content, and ensuring
that Prohibited Content is removed immediately upon being ordered by the TCRA.
Subscribers and users of online content, on the other hand, are responsible and
accountable for the information they post in an online forum, social media, blog and
any other related media. The Regulations also expressly provide that all persons are
prohibited from publishing any Prohibited Content.
A strict reading of the Regulations seems to suggest that ‘online content hosts’6 do not
fall within the category of ‘online content service providers’ and accordingly are not
subject to the TCRA’s licensing requirements. Online content hosts would, however,
still be required under the Regulations to adopt a code of conduct for hosting
contents and to ensure that Prohibited Content is removed upon notification by the
TCRA or affected party. Based on the foregoing, it is our interpretation that even
foreign online platforms that may not be subject to TCRA’s licensing requirements
but may be considered online content hosts, could technically still be held liable for
Prohibited Content on their platforms which is not removed upon notification. How
such notification would be enforced against a foreign online platform remains unclear.

Removing Prohibited Content
As we have highlighted above, the Regulations require online content service
providers and online content hosts to remove Prohibited Content upon notification.
It is imperative for stakeholders to clearly understand who is authorised to issue
the notification (referred to more generally as a ‘take down request’ (TDR)) and on
what grounds, the form in which the TDR needs to be issued and served and the
procedures for responding to and/or removing content, as well as potential liability
for failure to comply.

6

‘Online content host’ means any server that hosts or provides access to online accessible content

which may include file transfer protocol servers, telnet servers, web hosting companies and web servers.

3

We have set out below a high-level summary of these considerations, followed by a more in-depth analysis in the next
section covering what constitutes unlawful content and the complaint handling procedures prescribed in the Regulations.

Recipient of TDR
Licensees (online content
service providers)

Issuer of TDR and Grounds

TDR Issuance and Response/

Potential Liability for Failure

for Issuance

Removal Procedures

to Remove Content

Issuer: TCRA

Format of TDR: Not

Suspension or revocation of

prescribed

license;

Service of TDR: Not

upon conviction liable to a

prescribed

fine of not less than TZS 5

Grounds: Prohibited Content

Recipient’s Response:
Prohibited Content to be
removed ‘immediately’ upon
being ordered by TCRA
Issuer: Content committee
Grounds: Where the content

or both;

prescribed

from the content committee;

a breach is committed under

prescribed
Recipient’s Response:
Removal of the content

Grounds: In relation to any

not less than twelve months

receipt of a warning letter

Service of TDR: Not

Issuer: Any person

or imprisonment for a term of

Format of TDR: Not

committee determines that
the Regulations

million (approx. USD 2,160)

and/or
issue an apology to the public
and the victim of complained
content

Format of TDR: Not
prescribed

matter connected with

Service of TDR: Not

Prohibited Content

prescribed
Recipient’s Response: 12
hours to resolve a userinitiated complaint

Licensees (application

Issuer: TCRA or affected

Format of TDR: Not

services licensee)

party

prescribed

Grounds: Prohibited Content

Service of TDR: Not

Same as above

prescribed
Recipient’s Response: Within
2 hours notify its subscribers
to remove the Prohibited
Content and if the subscriber
fails to remove Prohibited
Content within 2 hours, the
licensee shall suspend or
terminate the subscriber’s
access account
Non-licensees (e.g. online

Issuer: TCRA or affected

Format of TDR: Not

Same as above except

content host)

party

prescribed

suspension or revocation

Grounds: Prohibited Content

Service of TDR: Not
prescribed
Recipient’s Response:
Prohibited Content to be
removed upon notification by
the TCRA or affected party

of license would not be
applicable

Complaint Handling and Liability
User-flagged Unlawful Content
A key question arising in relation to TDRs is whether liability only attaches if clearly
unlawful content isn’t removed and if so, who is authorised to determine whether the
content is in fact clearly unlawful?
Online service providers have millions (and in some cases billions) of subscribers and
users. The social benefit of subscribers or users being able to flag or report certain
content is undeniable; however, it poses a practical challenge for the service provider.
For example, if a user flags or reports certain content as unlawful, the online content
service provider or host may not be in a position to determine whether the content in
question is, in fact, unlawful or not (whereas a court or competent authority, such as
the TCRA, would be). Would a service provider in that instance still be liable for failing
to remove user-flagged content that is not clearly unlawful?
Although the Regulations do not directly address this question, we have analysed the
two levels of complaint handling in the Regulations, which are detailed below, and
our view is that users are not authorised to determine whether the content is in fact
clearly unlawful.
Under the Regulations, the first level of the complaint process authorizes any person
to file a complaint to an online service provider, while the second level involves
escalating unresolved complaints to the authorities. The Regulations provide that
where an online content provider fails to resolve a complaint within twelve hours, the
aggrieved person may, within thirty days from the date of filing the complaint, refer
the complaint to the TCRA. The process seems to suggest that it would be unlikely for
a service provider to be held liable for failing to remove user-flagged content which
is not clearly unlawful because that comes under level one (in which a competent
authority, such as the TCRA or a court, has not yet decided on the unlawfulness of the
content). The liability would therefore likely only attach after a service provider fails
to comply with an order from a competent authority, such as the TCRA, rather than a
user. In the subsequent section, we have analysed the complaint handling procedures
to be followed by the TCRA.

Complaint Handling by a Competent Authority
A welcome addition to the Regulations is a more rigorous process for complaint
handling by a competent authority. As outlined above, the Regulations prescribe two
levels of complaint handling, which in some cases are similar to the procedure set out
in the 2018 Regulations; however, there are some differences. First, the Regulations
provide that a person aggrieved by a complaint handling decision of the TCRA may
appeal to the Fair Competition Tribunal. The 2018 Regulations did not expressly set
out this recourse.
Second, the Regulations provide that where a breach under the Regulations
is committed by a licensee, the TCRA may subject the licensee to the content
committee. The 2018 Regulations only made reference to the TCRA’s obligation to
handle a complaint through the content committee procedures and did not touch on

5

the powers of the content committee itself. It is worth noting that the Regulations
do not provide any information on the composition of the committee; however, they
do provide that upon determination the content committee may take one or more of
the following actions: (i) issue a warning to the licensee; (ii) require the licensee to
issue an apology to the public and the victim of the complained content; (iii) order
removal of the content; or (iv) impose a fine. It is unclear from the drafting of the law
whether the TCRA is also authorised to take the above-mentioned actions. Notably,
the Regulations are silent as to whether the decisions of the content committee can
be appealed to the Fair Competition Tribunal, in the way that the decisions of the
TCRA can be.
A strict reading of the relevant section in the Regulations seems to suggest that
the above-mentioned actions are reserved for the content committee; however,
our interpretation based on a broad reading of the Regulations in their entirety is
that the TCRA may also take these actions. Furthermore, the fact that the TCRA is
not required to refer the matter to the committee (the Regulations state that the
TCRA may subject the licensee to the content committee) also suggests that either
the content committee or the TCRA can make a final determination with regard to a
breach of the Regulations.
Finally, the Regulations provide that the TCRA must handle complaints filed to an
online content service provider in relation to any matter connected with Prohibited
Content in accordance with Content Committee Procedures Rules. By comparison,
the 2018 Regulations only referred more generally to the obligation of the TCRA to
handle complaints through the ‘content committee procedures,’ and those procedures
were not expounded upon. It is unclear whether these rules have been drafted as
they are not currently publicly available; however, we are hopeful that they will assist
in ensuring a streamlined and balanced complaint assessment and resolution process.
In summary, these provisions serve as a positive first step towards creating comfort
that appropriate dispute resolution mechanisms are in place; however, clarifications
are required on certain issues highlighted above, in order for stakeholders to have a
complete understanding of the implications of these provisions.

Cyber Crimes Act
It is important to note that in addition to the Regulations, the Cyber Crimes Act, 2015
(the Cyber Crimes Act) also prescribes online content restrictions and authorises the
issuance of TDRs by a competent authority.
The Cyber Crimes Act provides that among other stakeholders, a ‘hosting provider’7
is not liable for the information stored at the request of a user of the service, “on
condition that the hosting provider immediately removes or disables access to the
information after receiving an order from any competent authority or court to remove
specific illegal information stored; or upon becoming aware of illegal information stored in
means than a competent authority, shall immediately inform the relevant authority.” For
the purposes of this section, the TCRA is the competent authority.

7

Under the Cyber Crimes Act, ‘hosting provider’ means a person who provides an electronic data

transmission service by storing information provided by a user of the service.

6

With regard to ‘service providers,’8 the Cyber Crimes Act provides that a person may,
through a take-down notification, notify a service provider of any data or activity
infringing the rights of the recipient or a third party, any unlawful material or activity,
or any other matter conducted or provided contrary to the provisions of any written
law. A service provider who fails to act on a take-down notification received under
that section may be charged as the person who initiated the content. Furthermore,
any person who communicates a take-down notification to a service provider and the
service provider fails to act upon the notification may notify a competent authority
of the failure to take-down and the competent authority may take down or order the
service provider to act on the take-down notification or take any other measures to
resolve the matter.
It is interesting to note that the two levels of complaint handling in the Regulations,
are fairly similar to the two levels of complaint handling in the Cyber Crimes Act.
Under the Cyber Crimes Act, the first level involves any person providing a service
provider with a take-down notification and the second level involves escalating an
unaddressed notification to a competent authority. Accordingly, even under the
Cyber Crimes Act, liability in relation to unlawful content would likely only attach
after a service provider fails to comply with an order from a competent authority.
Finally, whereas the Regulations do not describe the format of a valid TDR, the Cyber
Crimes Act expressly provides for the requirements that a TDR must satisfy. A TDR
must be in a permanent medium addressed by the complainant to the service provider
or its designated agent and must include:
a.

the full names and address of the complainant;

b.

the signature of the complainant;

c.

identification of the right that has allegedly been infringed;

d.

identification of the material or activity that is claimed to be the subject of
unlawful activity;

e.

the remedial action required to be taken by the service provider in respect of
the complaint;

f.

a statement that the complainant is acting in good faith; and

g.

a statement by the complainant that the information in the take-down
notification is to his knowledge true or correct.

Conclusion
In summary, the application of the Cyber Crimes Act is much broader than the
Regulations. As a result, even service providers or hosts in the online space that may
not be required to be licensed with the TCRA are encouraged to better understand
the implications of these laws on their business so that they can take the appropriate
steps to ensure compliance.

8

Under the Cyber Crimes Act, ‘service provider’ means a person or party that makes information

system services available to third parties.

7

Key contacts
Should you have any questions on the impact of the Electronic and Postal Communications (Online Content) Regulations,
2020, please do not hesitate to contact Shemane Amin or Dominic Rebelo.

Shemane Amin

Dominic Rebelo

Partner

Partner

ALN Tanzania | A&K Tanzania

ALN Kenya | Anjarwalla &

sda@africalegalnetwork.com

Khanna
djr@africalegalnetwork.com

*Contributor: Raymond Warioba (Associate)

The content of this alert is intended to be of general use only and should not be relied upon without seeking specific legal advice
on any matter.

