First

Session

Tenth Parliament
Trinidad and Tobago

Republic

of

REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

Act No. 13 of 2011

[L.S.]

AN ACT to provide for the protection of personal
privacy and information
[Assented to

, 2011]

ENACTED by the Parliament of Trinidad and Tobago as Enactment
follows:
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Data Protection Short title and
commencement
Act, 2011.

2

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(2) This Act shall come into operation on such day
as is fixed by the President by Proclamation.
Interpretation

2. In this Act—
“Commissioner” means the Information
Commissioner appointed under section 8;
“Court” means the High Court of Trinidad and
Tobago;
“data” means any document, correspondence,
memorandum, book, plan, map, drawing,
pictoral or graphic work, photograph, film,
microfilm, sound recording, videotape,
machine-readable record and any other
documentary material, regardless of
form or characteristics, and any copy of
those things;
“data matching” means the comparison,
whether naturally or by means of any
electronic or other device, of any data that
contains personal information about
individuals with other documents containing
personal information about individuals for
the purpose of producing new forms of
information about individuals;
“enterprise” means a partnership or body
(corporate or unincorporated) engaged in
business;
“Head of a Public Body” means the President,
the Prime Minister, the President of the
Senate, the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, the Chief Administrator
of the Tobago House of Assembly, the Chief
Secretary of the Tobago House of
Assembly, the Permanent Secretary of a
Ministry, the Head of a Government
Department, the Head of the Judiciary,
Chief Executive Officer of an enterprise or
the Chairman of an agency or where such
title does not exist, the person who
performs such duties;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

“health care body” means a regional health
authority established under the Regional
Health Authorities Act, a hospital, extended Chap. 29:05
care facility, clinic, psychiatric hospital as
defined under the Mental Health Act, a Chap. 28:02
private hospital as defined under the
Private Hospitals Act, and similar bodies Chap. 29:03
licensed by the Minister with responsibility
for health;
“individual” means a natural person;
“information sharing agreement” means an
agreement that sets conditions for one or
more of the following:
(a) the exchange of personal information
between a public body and a
person, a group of persons or an
organization;
(b) the disclosure of personal information
by a public body to a person, a
group of persons or an organization;
or
(c) a collection of personal information
by a public body from a public body,
a person or a group of persons of an
organization;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom
responsibility for data protection is
assigned and “Ministry” shall be construed
accordingly;
“personal information” means information
about an identifiable individual that is
recorded in any form including—
(a) information relating to the race,
nationality or ethnic origin,
religion, age or marital status of
the individual;

3

4

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(b) information relating to the
education or the medical, criminal
or employment history of the
individual or information relating
to the financial transactions in
which the individual has been
involved or which refers to the
individual;
(c) any identifying number, symbol or
other particular designed to identify
the individual;
(d) the address and telephone contact
number of the individual;
(e) the name of the individual where it
appears
with other personal
information relating to the
individual or where the disclosure
of the name itself would reveal
information about the individual;
(f) correspondence
sent
to
an
establishment by the individual
that is explicitly or implicitly of a
private or confidential nature, and
any replies to such correspondence
which would reveal the contents of
the original correspondence;
(g) the views and opinions of any other
person about the individual; or
(h) the fingerprints, deoxyribonucleic
acid, blood type or the biometric
characteristics of the individual;
“personal information bank” means a collection
of personal information that is organized
or retrievable by the name of the individual
or by an identifying number, symbol or other
particulars assigned to the individual;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

“premises” includes land or any vessel, vehicle
or aircraft and references to the occupier or
any premises include references to the
person in charge of the land or any vessel,
vehicle or aircraft;
“privacy impact assessment” means an
assessment that is conducted to determine if
a proposed enactment, system, project,
programme or activity meets the
requirements of the General Privacy
Principles of section 6;
“public body” means—
(a) the Office of the President;
(b) Parliament,
a
Joint
Select
Committee of Parliament or a
committee of either House of
Parliament;
(c) the Court of Appeal, the High
Court, the Industrial Court, the
Tax Appeal Board or any court of
summary jurisdiction;
(d) the Cabinet as constituted under
the Constitution, a Ministry or
Department, Division or Agency of
a Ministry;
(e) the Tobago House of Assembly, the
Executive Council of the Tobago
House of Assembly or a division of
the Tobago House of Assembly;
(f) a municipal corporation established
under the Municipal Corporations
Chap. 25:04
Act;
(g) a statutory body, responsibility for
which is assigned to a Minister of
Government;

5

6

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(h) a company incorporated under the
laws of Trinidad and Tobago that is
owned and controlled by the State;
(i) a Service Commission established
under the Constitution or other
written law; or
(j) a body corporate or an unincorporated entity in relation to any function
that it exercises on behalf of the
State, or which is supported, directly
or indirectly by Government funds
and over which Government is in a
position to exercise control;
“record” means recorded information collected,
created or received in the initiation,
conduct or completion of an activity and
that comprises sufficient content, context
and structure to provide evidence or proof
of that activity or transaction;
“sensitive personal information”
information on a person’s–

means

(a) racial or ethnic origins;
(b) political affiliations or trade union
membership;
(c) religious beliefs or other beliefs of a
similar nature;
(d) physical or
condition;

mental

health

or

(e) sexual orientation or sexual life; or
(f) criminal or financial record;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

7

“sensory disability” means a disability that
relates to sight or hearing; and
“service provider” means a person retained
under a contract to perform services of a
public body.
3. This Act binds the State.

Act binds the State

4. The object of this Act is to ensure that protection is Object of the Act
afforded to an individual’s right to privacy and the right
to maintain sensitive personal information as private
and personal.
5. This Act shall not—

Inapplicability of Act

(a) limit information available by law to a party
in any proceeding;
(b) limit the power of a court or tribunal to
compel a witness to testify or to compel the
production of a document or other evidence;
or
(c) apply to notes prepared by or for an individual
presiding in a court of Trinidad and Tobago or
in a tribunal if those notes are prepared for
that individual’s personal use in connection
with the proceedings.
6. The following principles are the General Privacy General
Privacy Principles
Principles which are applicable to all persons who
handle, store or process personal information belonging
to another person:
(a) an organization shall be responsible for the
personal information under its control;
(b) the purpose for which personal information
is collected shall be identified by the
organization before or at the time of
collection;

8

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(c) knowledge and consent of the individual are
required for the collection, use or disclosure
of personal information;
(d) collection of personal information shall be
legally undertaken and be limited to what is
necessary in accordance with the purpose
identified by the organization;
(e) personal information shall only be retained
for as long as is necessary for the purpose
collected and shall not be disclosed for
purposes other than the purpose of
collection without the prior consent of the
individual;
(f) personal information shall be accurate,
complete and up-to-date as is necessary for
the purpose of collection;
(g) personal information is to be protected by
such appropriate safeguards having regard
to the sensitivity of the information;
(h) sensitive personal information is protected
from processing except where otherwise
provided for by written law;
(i) organizations are to make available to
individuals documents regarding their policies
and practices related to the management of
personal information except where otherwise
provided by written law;
(j) organizations shall, except where otherwise
provided by written law, disclose at the
request of the individual, all documents
relating to the existence, use and disclosure
of personal information, such that the
individual can challenge the accuracy and
completeness of the information;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(k) the individual has the ability to challenge
the organization’s compliance with the
above principles and receive timely and
appropriate
engagement
from
the
organization; and
(l) personal information which is requested to
be disclosed outside of Trinidad and Tobago
shall be regulated and comparable
safeguards to those under this Act shall
exist in the jurisdiction receiving the
personal information.
PART II
OFFICE

OF THE

INFORMATION COMMISSIONER

7. There is hereby established a body corporate to be Office of the
known as the Office of the Information Commissioner. Information
Commissioner
8. (1) There shall be an Information Commissioner Appointment of
(hereinafter referred to as “the Commissioner”) who Information
Commissioner
shall—
(a) be the head of the Office of the Information
Commissioner;
(b) be appointed by the President; and
(c) possess the qualifications and experience
set out in subsection (2).
(2) A person appointed to be the Information
Commissioner under subsection (1) shall be an attorneyat-law within the meaning of the Legal Profession Act Chap. 90:03
with at least ten years standing and shall have training
or experience in economics, finance, information security,
technology, audit or human resource management.
(3) A person appointed under subsection (1) shall
hold office for five years and may be reappointed.

9

10

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

Schedule

(4) A person appointed under subsection (1) shall,
before he performs the functions of Information
Commissioner, take and subscribe to the oath of office
set out in Part A of the Schedule.

Powers of
Information
Commissioner

9. (1) The Commissioner shall monitor the administration of this Act to ensure its purposes are achieved.
(2) In carrying out his powers under subsection
(1), the Commissioner may—
(a) conduct audits and investigations to ensure
compliance with any provision of this Act;
(b) advise on the privacy protection implications
of proposed legislative schemes or government
programmes and receive representations from
the public concerning data protection and
privacy matters;
(c) after hearing representations from the Head
of a Public Body or an organization subject
to a mandatory code of conduct and who may
be engaged in processes that may be in
contravention of this Act, order the public
body or organization to cease collection
practices or destroy collections of personal
information that contravene this Act;
(d) authorize the collection of personal information
otherwise than directly from the individual
in appropriate circumstances;
(e) make orders regarding the reasonableness
of fees required by an organization subject to
this Act;
(f) authorize data matching by a public body or
public bodies;
(g) make orders, including such terms and
conditions as the Commissioner considers
appropriate, following an appeal or
complaint filed by an individual pursuant to
section 58, 78 or 79A;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(h) make orders regarding compliance with the
General Privacy Principles set out in
section 6 by a public body or an organization
subject to a mandatory code of conduct;
(i) publish guidelines regarding compliance
with the Act, including but not limited to
guidelines on the development of industry
codes of conduct, firm compliance policies,
procedures for handling complaints, guidelines
dealing with conflict of interest for industry
bodies or individuals who mediate or deal with
complaint resolution, guidelines dealing with
security of information and information
systems, and guidelines for information
sharing agreements or data matching
agreements;
(j) exercise his corporate powers in relation
thereto in such manner as he thinks fit, in
accordance with this Act;
(k) make such administrative arrangements as
may be necessary for the proper conduct of
his functions; and
(l) exercise such other powers as may be
assigned to him under any other written
law.
10. The Commissioner appointed under section 8 Functions of
Information
shall—
Commissioner
(a) promote the development of codes of conduct
for guidance as to good practice;
(b) promote the adherence to good practices by
persons subject to this Act;
(c) disseminate information about this Act;
(d) monitor compliance with this Act;

11

12

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(e) co-operate with counterparts in other
jurisdictions to promote the protection of
personal privacy in the public and private
sectors;
(f) carry out special studies or research regarding
privacy or related issues;
(g) bring to the attention of the head of the
public body or organization subject to a
mandatory code of conduct any failure to
meet the standards imposed by the General
Privacy Principles set out in section 6 or the
responsibilities established by Part III and
Part IV of this Act;
(h) issue public reports on the status of
compliance with this Act;
(i) review and approve privacy impact
assessments as required by this Act; and
(j) exercise such other functions that may be
assigned to him under any other written
law.
Deputy Information
Commissioner

11. (1) The President may appoint no more than two
Deputy Information Commissioners who shall meet the
same requirements for qualifications or experience as
specified for the Information Commissioner under
section 8.
(2) Where more than one Deputy Information
Commissioner is appointed the President shall specify
which function each respective Deputy Information
Commissioner shall perform either under this Act or
under the Freedom of Information Act, 1999 or any
other written law.
(3) A
Deputy
Information
Commissioner
appointed under subsection (1) shall hold office for a
period not exceeding five years and may be reappointed.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

13

(4) A Deputy Information Commissioner may, in
the absence or incapacity of the Commissioner, act in
his place.
(5) Where the post of Information Commissioner is
vacant, a Deputy Information Commissioner may act as
the Information Commissioner until such time as a
Commissioner is appointed to the vacant post.
(6) In the absence or incapacity of a Deputy
Information Commissioner, the President may appoint
an acting Deputy Information Commissioner.
(7) A person appointed under subsection (1) shall,
before he performs the functions of Deputy Information
Commissioner, take and subscribe to the oath of office
set out in Part B of the Schedule.
12. (1) The Commissioner or Deputy Information Resignation or
of
Commissioner may be removed from office only for removal
Information
cause, including misconduct in relation to his duties or Commissioner and
Information
physical or mental inability to fulfil the responsibilities Deputy
Commissioner
of the office.
(2) The Commissioner or Deputy Information
Commissioner may at any time resign his office by
letter addressed to the President.
13. Section 141 of the Constitution shall apply to the Remuneration of
offices of the Commissioner and the Deputy Information Information
Commissioner and
Commissioner.
Deputy Information
Commissioner

14. (1) The Office of the Information Commissioner Seal of Office of the
shall have a seal which shall be kept in the custody of Information
Commissioner
the Commissioner and shall be judicially noticed as
such.
(2) The seal of the Office of the Information
Commissioner may be affixed to documents and
instruments in the presence of the Commissioner and
shall be attested by the signature of the Commissioner
and the signature shall be sufficient evidence that the
seal was duly and properly affixed and is the lawful seal
of the Office of the Information Commissioner.

14

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(3) All documents, other than those required by
law to be under seal made by, and all decisions of the
Commissioner may be signified under the hand of the
Commissioner.

Chap. 56:01
Chap. 56:02

Service of documents

Execution of
documents

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Conveyancing and Law of Property Act and the Real
Property Act relating to the matters thereunder
required to be performed and to the mode of their
performance prior to the registration of a Deed, document
or other instrument, the affixing of the seal of the Office of
the Information Commissioner and the signing by the
Commissioner in the manner set out in subsection (2) shall
be, and shall be taken as sufficient evidence for the
purposes of those Acts of the due execution by the Office
of the Information Commissioner of any Deed,
document or other instrument.
15. Service upon the Commissioner of any notice,
order or other document shall be effected by delivering
the same or by sending it by registered post addressed
to the Commissioner at the office of the Office of the
Information Commissioner.
16. (1) Any document required to be executed by the
Office of the Information Commissioner shall be deemed
to be duly executed if signed—
(a) by the Commissioner; or
(b) outside Trinidad and Tobago, by the person
or persons authorized by the Commissioner
so to sign, but in such case the instrument
so authorizing such person or persons shall
be attached to and form part of the
document.
(2) Any cheque, bill of exchange or order for the
payment of money required to be executed by the
Commissioner shall be deemed to be duly executed if
signed by a person or persons authorized to do so by the
Commissioner.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

15

17. (1) The Commissioner may employ such persons Staff of the Office of
as he considers necessary for the due and efficient Information
Commissioner
performance of his duties and functions under this Act
on such terms and conditions as are agreed between the
Commissioner and the person and subject to such
maximum limit of remuneration as the Minister may
determine.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) and the approval of
the appropriate Service Commission or Statutory
Authority and with the consent of the officer, any officer
in the public service or a Statutory Authority may be
seconded to the service of the Office of the Information
Commissioner.
(3) Where a secondment referred to in subsection
(2) is effected, arrangements shall be made to preserve
the rights of the officer so transferred to any pension,
gratuity or other allowance for which he would have
been eligible had he not been seconded to or from the
service of the Office of the Information Commissioner.
(4) A period of transfer on secondment shall be for
three years and may only be extended for a further two
years.
(5) Subject to the approval of the Commissioner,
the appropriate Service Commission and with the
consent of the officer, an officer in the public service or
a Statutory Authority may be transferred to the service
of the Office of the Information Commissioner on terms
and conditions no less favourable than those enjoyed by
the officer at the time of transfer in the public service or
Statutory Authority, as the case may be.
(6) The Commissioner shall establish a pension
plan, or where the establishment of a plan is not
feasible, the Commissioner shall make arrangements
for membership in an existing plan.
(7) Subject to the rules of the pension plan established
in accordance with subsection (6), all employees of the
Office of the Information Commissioner shall be eligible to
become members of the pension plan established in
accordance with subsection (6).

16

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(8) Superannuation benefits which had accrued to
a person transferred in accordance with subsection (5)
shall be preserved as at the date of his employment by
the Commissioner and such benefits shall continue to
accrue under the relevant pension law up to the date of
establishing a pension plan for the date on which
arrangements are made for membership in a plan on the
basis of pay, pensionable emoluments or salary, as the
case may be, applicable, at the time of this transfer to the
office held by him immediately prior to his employment by
the Commissioner.
(9) Where a person who is transferred in
accordance with subsection (5) dies, retires or his post in
the Office of the Information Commissioner is abolished
or he is retrenched by the Commissioner prior to
establishing or prior to the arrangements being made
for membership in a pension plan and, if at the date that
his service is terminated by any of the above-mentioned
methods he was in receipt of a salary higher than the
pay, pensionable emoluments or salary referred to in
subsection (8), the superannuation benefits payable to
his estate or to him, as the case may be, shall be based
on the higher salary.
(10) The difference between the superannuation
benefits payable on the basis of the higher salary
referred to in subsection (9) and the superannuation
benefits payable under the relevant pension law, on the
basis of the pay, pensionable emoluments or salary
referred to in subsection (8), shall be paid by the
Commissioner.
(11) Where a person who is transferred in
accordance with subsection (5) dies, retires or his post in
the Office of the Information Commissioner is abolished
or he is retrenched from the Office of the Information
Commissioner while being a member of the pension
plan established in accordance with subsection (6), he
shall be paid superannuation benefits by the pension
plan at the amount which, when combined with
superannuation benefits payable under the relevant

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

17

pension law, is equivalent to the benefits based on his
pensionable service in the public service or a Statutory
Authority combined with his service in the Office of the
Information Commissioner and calculated at the final
salary applicable to him on the date that his service was
terminated by any of the above-mentioned methods.
(12) For the purpose of subsection (11), “final
salary” shall have the meaning assigned to it by the
pension plan.
18. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Commissioner Delegation
may authorize any person according to their qualifications
for the purposes of this Act, to exercise or perform,
subject to such restrictions or limitations as the
Commissioner may specify, any powers, duties or
functions of the Commissioner.
(2) The Commissioner may delegate to only the
Deputy Information Commissioner responsibilities
regarding review of personal information that deals
with matters that may be exempt from disclosure
pursuant to sections 24 to 26 of the Freedom of Chap. 22:02
Information Act.
19. (1) The Commissioner may appoint officers within Designation and
the Office of the Information Commissioner to be inspectors powers of inspectors
according to their qualifications for the purposes of this
Act and shall furnish each such inspector with a certificate
of his designation.
(2) Where the Commissioner is conducting an
enquiry or inspection under this Act the officers
appointed under subsection (1) shall act on his behalf.
(3) An inspector shall, subject to sections 20 and
21, have the power to do all or any of the following
things for the purpose of the execution of this Act:
(a) if he considers necessary, take with him
when entering any premises, a police officer;

18

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(b) to require any person whom he finds in or on
such premises to give such information as is
in his power to give as to who is the owner
or occupier thereof and the employer of
workers employed to work thereon;
(c) to make such examinations, inspections,
investigations and enquiries as may be
necessary to ascertain whether this Act is
being complied with;
(d) to require the production of or to seize,
inspect or examine and to copy registers,
records or other documents;
(e) to examine, either alone or in the presence of
any other person as the inspector deems
necessary, for the purposes of this Act, with
respect to the observance of the provisions of
this Act or the Regulations, any person whom
he finds on premises or whom he has
reasonable cause to believe to be, or to have
been within the preceding two months,
employed thereon, and to require any such
person to be so examined and to sign a
declaration of the truth of the matters
respecting which he is so examined; so,
however, that no person shall be required
under this provision to answer any question
or to give evidence tending to incriminate
himself; and
(f) to seize and detain for such time as may be
necessary any article by means of which, or
in relation to which he reasonably believes any
provision of this Act has been contravened.
Power of
Commissioner to
conduct an audit or
enquiry of a Public
Body pursuant to
Part III

20. (1) Where the Information Commissioner is
conducting an audit or enquiry into the practices of a
Public Body for the purposes of ensuring compliance
with the General Privacy Principles set out in Part I, or

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

determining an appeal pursuant to Part III, the
Commissioner may—
(a) with the permission of the head of the public
body or on application for a warrant under
subsection (4), enter and inspect any premises
occupied by a public body for the purposes of
an audit or enquiry;
(b) require the production of any document or
record relevant to the enquiry that is in the
custody or control of a public body; or
(c) seize and detain relevant documents on
obtaining a warrant under subsection (4).
(2) The Commissioner shall not retain any
information obtained from an audit or enquiry under
subsection (1) beyond the period for which it is required.
(3) The Commissioner may exercise his powers
under this section with respect to the Office of the
President, Parliament, a Joint Select Committee of
Parliament or a committee of either House of
Parliament, the Cabinet, the Court of Appeal, the High
Court, the Industrial Court, the Tax Appeal Board or
any court of summary jurisdiction, the Tobago House of
Assembly, the Executive Council of the Tobago House of
Assembly only with the consent of the President, the
Speaker of the House of Representatives or the
President of the Senate, the Head of the Cabinet, the
Chief Justice, the Presiding Officer, the Chief
Administrator of the Tobago House of Assembly, the
Chief Secretary of the Tobago House of Assembly or the
Head of the Executive Council, as the case may be.
(4) Where the head of a public body refuses to—
(a) allow the Information Commissioner or any
person acting for or under him to enter and
inspect premises under subsection (1)(a), the
Information Commissioner shall, where he
believes that such entry is necessary, apply
to a Magistrate for a warrant to so enter,
seize and inspect; or

19

20

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(b) produce a document or record under
subsection
(1)(b),
the
Information
Commissioner shall, where he believes the
request to be reasonable, apply to the Court
for an Order requiring the public body to
produce such documents.
(5) Subsection (4) shall not apply to any public
body referred to in subsection (3).
(6) Where the Head of a Public Body referred to in
section (3) refuses to—
(a) allow the Information Commissioner or any
person acting for or under him to enter and
inspect premises under subsection (1)(a);
(b) produce a document or record under
subsection (1)(b);
the Information Commissioner may apply to a judge for
an order to direct the Head of the Public Body to—
(c) allow the Information Commissioner or any
person acting for or under him to enter and
inspect premises and seize any document
found therein for the purposes of an adult or
enqiry; or
(d) produce the document or record.
Power of
Commissioner to
conduct audit or
enquiry pursuant to
Part IV

21. (1) Where the Commissioner is conducting an
audit or enquiry into the compliance practices of a person
subject to the provisions of an enforceable code of conduct
pursuant to Part IV of this Act, the Commissioner may,
pursuant to the authority provided under subsection (2)
by an order of the Court—
(a) require the production of any document or
record that is in the custody or control of a
person subject to an enforceable code of
conduct; or
(b) enter and inspect any premises occupied by
a person subject to an enforceable code of

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

21

conduct and seize any document or record
found therein relevant to the audit or
enquiry.
(2) Where a private enterprise refuses to allow
the Commissioner or any person acting for or under him
to enter and inspect premises under subsection (1)(b),
the Commissioner may apply to the Court for an Order
to so enter and inspect.
(3) Where a private enterprise refuses to produce
a document or record under subsection (1)(b), the
Commissioner may apply to the Court for an Order
requiring the private enterprise to produce such
documents.
(4) The Commissioner shall not retain any
information obtained from an audit or enquiry under
subsection (1) beyond the period for which it is required.
22. (1) All expenses of the Office of the Information Expenses and
of the Office
Commissioner shall be met out of moneys provided by accounts
of the Information
Commissioner
Parliament.
(2) All revenues of the Office of the Information
Commissioner shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.
(3) The accounts of the Office of the Information
Commissioner shall be audited by the Auditor General
in accordance with the provisions of the Exchequer and
Chap. 69:01
Audit Act.
23. A statement made to or an answer given by a Statements made to
not
person during an investigation or enquiry by the Commissioner
admissible
Commissioner is inadmissible as evidence in court or
any other proceeding, except in—
(a) a prosecution for perjury in respect of sworn
testimony made before the Commissioner;
(b) a prosecution for an offence under this Act;
or
(c) an application for judicial review under this
Act or an appeal from a decision with respect
to that application.

22
Privileged
information

Restrictions on
disclosure of
information by
Commissioner and
staff

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

24. Anything said in information supplied or any
data produced by a person during an investigation or
enquiry by the Commissioner is privileged in the same
manner as if the investigation or enquiry were a
proceeding in a court.
25. (1) The Commissioner and anyone acting for or
under the direction of the Commissioner shall not
disclose any information obtained in performing their
duties, powers and functions under this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding
subsection
(1),
the
Commissioner may disclose or may authorize anyone
acting for or under the direction of the Commissioner, to
disclose information—
(a) necessary to conduct an investigation, audit
or enquiry under this Act or establish
grounds for findings and recommendations
contained in a report under the Act; or
(b) in the course of a prosecution or an appeal
from, or judicial review of, a decision of the
Commissioner.

Protection of
Commissioner and
staff

Annual report of
Commissioner

26. Proceedings shall not lie against the Commissioner
or a person acting for or under the direction of the
Commissioner for anything done, reported or said in
good faith in the exercise or performance or the intended
exercise or performance of a duty, power or function
under this Part.
27. (1) The Commissioner shall submit a report
annually to Parliament within three months after the
end of the calendar year on the activities of the Office of
the Information Commissioner for the previous year
commencing one year after the coming into operation of
this Act.
(2) the Commissioner may submit a special
report to Parliament at any time commenting on any
matters within the scope, duties and functions of the
Commissioner where the matter is of such urgency or
importance that it should not be deferred to the time of
the next annual report to Parliament.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

23

28. The Commissioner shall by Order publish in the Commissioner to
list of
Gazette and at least two newspapers in daily circulation publish
equivalent
in Trinidad and Tobago a list of countries which have jurisdictions
comparable safeguards for personal information as
provided by this Act.
PART III
PROTECTION

OF

PERSONAL DATA BY PUBLIC BODIES

29. (1) The following information about an individual Personal information
who is or has been an employee or official of a public
body is not personal information for the purpose of this
Act:
(a) the fact that the individual is or has been an
employee or official of a public body;
(b) the title, business address and business
telephone number of the individual;
(c) the name of the individual on a document
prepared by the individual in the course of
employment; and
(d) the professional opinions or views of the
individual given in the course of employment.
(2) Information about an individual who is or was
performing services under contract for a public body
that relates to the services performed, including the
terms of the performance, the name of the individual,
and the opinions or views of the individual given in the
course of the performance of those services is not
personal information for the purposes of the Act.
(3) Information relating to any discretionary
benefit of a financial nature including the granting of a
licence or permit conferred to an individual, including
the name of the individual and the exact nature of the
benefit is not personal information for the purposes of
the Act.
(4) Information about an individual who has been
deceased for more than twenty years is not personal
information for the purpose of this Act.

24
Collection of
personal information

Personal information
to be collected
directly

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

30. Personal information shall not be collected by or
for a public body unless—
(a) the collection of that information is
expressly authorized by or under any
written law;
(b) the information is collected for the purposes
of law enforcement; or
(c) that information relates directly to and is
necessary for an operating programme or
activity of the public body.
31. (1) Where a public body requires personal
information from an individual it shall collect the
personal information or cause the personal information
to be collected directly from that individual.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), personal
information may be collected from a source other than
the individual where—
(a) another method of collection is authorized
by the individual, by the Commissioner or by
any other written law;
(b) the collection of information is necessary for
medical treatment of an individual and it is
not possible to collect the information directly
from that individual or the collection is
necessary to obtain authority from that
person for another method of collection; and
(c) the information is collected for the purpose
of—
(i) determining the suitability for an
honour or award including an
honorary degree, scholarship, prize
or bursary;
(ii) proceedings before a court or a
judicial or quasi-judicial tribunal;
(iii) collecting a debt or fine or making a
payment; or
(iv) law enforcement.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

25

32. (1) A public body shall ensure that the individual Individual to be
from whom it collects personal information or causes informed of purpose
personal information to be collected is informed of—
(a) the purpose for collecting it;
(b) the legal authority for collecting it; and
(c) the title, business address and business
telephone number of an official or employee
of the public body who can answer the
individual’s questions about the collection.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply if compliance
with subsection (1) would—
(a) result in the collection of inaccurate
information;
(b) defeat the purpose or prejudice the use for
which the information is to be collected;
(c) prejudice a law enforcement matter; or
(d) prejudice the defence of Trinidad and
Tobago or of any foreign state allied to or
associated with Trinidad and Tobago or harm
the detection, prevention or suppression of
espionage, sabotage or terrorism.
33. Personal information that has been used by a Retention of personal
used for
public body for an administrative purpose shall be information
an administrative
retained by the authority for such period of time after it purpose
has been used as may be prescribed by Order of the
Minister, to ensure that the individual to whom it
relates has a reasonable opportunity to obtain access to
that information.
34. Where the personal information of an individual Accuracy of personal
is in the custody or control of a public body and the information
personal information will be used by or on behalf of the
public body to make a decision that directly affects the
individual, the public body shall make every reasonable
effort to ensure that the personal information is
accurate and complete.

26
Protection of
personal information

Storage and access of
personal information
in Trinidad and
Tobago

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

35. A public body shall protect personal information
in its custody or under its control by making reasonable
security arrangements against such risks as unauthorized
access, collection, use, alteration, disclosure or disposal.
36. A public body shall ensure or take steps to ensure
that personal information in its custody or under its
control is stored only in Trinidad and Tobago and
accessed only in Trinidad and Tobago unless—
(a) the individual to whom the information
relates has identified the information and
has consented in the prescribed manner to
its being stored in or accessed from another
jurisdiction; or
(b) the information is stored in or accessed from
another jurisdiction that has comparable
safeguards as provided by this Act.

Disposal of personal
information

Use of personal
information

Consistent purpose

37. A public body shall dispose of all personal information
in its control or custody in accordance with Regulations
made by the Minister under this Act.
38. Personal information under the custody or control
of a public body shall not, without the consent of the
individual to whom it relates, be used by the authority
except for the purpose for which the information was
obtained or compiled by the public body, or for a use
consistent with that purpose, or for a purpose for which
the information may be disclosed by the public body
pursuant to section 42.
39. The use of personal information is consistent with
the purposes for which it was obtained or compiled, if
the use has a reasonable and direct connection to the
purpose, and is necessary for performing the statutory
duties of, or for operating a legally authorized
programme of a public body that uses or discloses the
information or causes the information to be used or
disclosed.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

27

40. (1) A public body shall not process sensitive Limitation on
of
personal information unless it obtains the consent of the processing
sensitive personal
person to whom that sensitive personal information information in
possession of public
relates.
body
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), sensitive
personal information may be processed—
(a) by a health care professional or an employee
or agent of a health care body at the direction
of a health care professional for the purposes
of health and hospital care where it is
necessary for—
(i) preventative medicine and the
protection of public health;
(ii) medical diagnosis;
(iii) health care and treatment; and
(iv) the management of health and
hospital care services;
(b) where it has been made public by the person
to whom such information relates;
(c) for research and statistical purposes in
accordance with section 43;
(d) in the interest of law enforcement and
national security;
(e) for the purposes of determining access to
social services; or
(f) in accordance with or where authorized by
any other written law.
(3) For the purpose of this section, “health care
professional” means a person registered under the–
(a) Medical Board Act;
Chap. 29:50
(b) Dental Profession Act;
Chap. 29:54
Chap. 29:51
(c) Opticians Registration Act;
(d) Pharmacy Board Act;
Chap. 29:52
Chap. 29:53
(e) Nurses and Midwives Registration Act;
(f) Professions Related to Medicine Act; and
Chap. 90:04
(g) Emergency
Ambulance
Services
and Act No. 8 of 2009
Emergency Medical Personnel Act, 2009.

28

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(4) A person who contravenes this section commits
an offence.
Disclosure of personal
information in
Trinidad and Tobago

When personal
information may be
disclosed

41. Personal information under the custody or control
of a public body shall not be disclosed by the public body
in Trinidad and Tobago without the consent of the
individual to whom it relates, except in accordance with
sections 42, 43, 44 and 45.
42. Except as provided under any other written law,
personal information under the control of a public body
may only be disclosed—
(a) for the purposes for which the information
was collected or compiled by the public body
or for a use consistent with that purpose;
(b) for any purpose in accordance with any
written law or any order made pursuant to
such written law that authorizes such
disclosure;
(c) for the purpose of complying with a subpoena
or warrant issued or order made by a court,
person or body with jurisdiction to compel
the production of information or for the
purpose of complying with rules of court
relating to the production of information;
(d) to the Attorney General of Trinidad and
Tobago for the purpose of, or in connection
with, legal proceedings involving the State,
where such disclosure is reasonably
required in the interests of fairness and
prior notice of such disclosure is given to the
person to whom the information relates;
(e) to an investigative body specified by the
Minister by Order, on the written request of
the investigative body, for the purpose of
investigating compliance with any written
law or carrying out a lawful investigation, if
the request specifies the purpose and
describes the information to be provided;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

29

(f) by one law enforcement agency in Trinidad
and Tobago to another law enforcement
agency within Trinidad and Tobago for the
purpose of enforcement of a written law;
(g) to a law enforcement agency in a foreign
country under a written agreement, treaty
or under the authority of the Government of
Trinidad and Tobago;
(h) if the head of the public body agrees that a
compelling circumstance exists that affects
the health or safety of any person and if
notice of the disclosure is mailed to the last
known address of the individual to whom
the information relates, unless the head of
the public body has a reasonable belief that
providing notification could harm the health
or safety of any person;
(i) so that the next of kin or friend of an
injured, ill or deceased person may be
contacted;
(j) for the purpose of collecting monies owing by
an individual to the Government of Trinidad
and Tobago or by a public body to an
individual;
(k) for statistical purposes where the disclosure
meets the requirements of section 43; or
(l) for archival purposes where the disclosure
meets the requirements of section 44.
43. A public body may disclose personal information Disclosure for
and
or may cause personal information in its custody or research
statistical purposes
control to be disclosed for a research purpose, including
statistical research only if—
(a) the research purpose cannot reasonably be
accomplished unless that information is
provided in individually identifiable form;

30

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(b) the information is disclosed on condition
that it not be used for the purpose of
contacting a person to participate in
research;
(c) any record linkage is not harmful to the
individual to whom that information is
about and the benefits to be derived from the
record linkage are clearly in the public
interest;
(d) the head of the public body concerned has
approved conditions relating to the following:
(i) security and confidentiality;
(ii) the removal or destruction of the
individual identifiers at the earliest
reasonable time; and
(iii) the prohibition of any subsequent
use or disclosure of that information
in individually identifiable form
without the express authorization
of that public body; and
(e) the person to whom that information is
disclosed has signed an agreement to comply
with the approved conditions, this Act and
any of the public body’s policies and
procedures relating to the confidentiality of
personal information.
Disclosure for
archival or historical
purposes

44. The archives of the Government of Trinidad and
Tobago or the archives of a public body may disclose
personal information or cause personal information in
its custody or control to be disclosed for archival or
historical purposes if—
(a) the disclosure would not be an unreasonable
invasion of professional or personal privacy;
(b) the disclosure is for historical research and
is in accordance with section 42;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

31

(c) the information concerns someone who has
been deceased for twenty or more years; or
(d) the information is in a record that has been
in existence for one hundred or more years.
45. Notwithstanding sections 42, 43 and 44, medical Disclosure of medical
to be
information shall not be disclosed by a public body information
restricted
except—
(a) with the consent of the person to whom such
information relates; or
(b) by order of the Court.
46. (1) Where personal information under the Disclosure of
information
custody and control of a public body is to be disclosed to personal
outside of Trinidad
a party residing in another jurisdiction, the public body and Tobago
shall inform the individual to whom it relates of—
(a) the purpose for which the information is
being collected once that purpose is known
to the public body; and
(b) the identity of—
(i) the person requesting the information;
and
(ii) the relevant public body with
responsibility for Data Protection
in the other jurisdiction,
and obtain
information.

his

consent

before

disclosing

the

(2) Where a person under subsection (1) does not
consent to the release of his personal information, the
public body shall not so disclose.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) shall not apply where
the circumstances set out in section 41 exist, but
personal information may be limited where the public
body determines that the jurisdiction to which the
personal information is being sent does not have
comparable standards.

32

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(4) Where a person under subsection (1) consents
to the release of his information and the public body is—
(a) satisfied that the jurisdiction to which the
information is being sent has comparable
safeguards, as provided by this Act, the
public body shall disclose the personal
information; or
(b) not satisfied that the jurisdiction to which the
information is being sent has comparable
safeguards, the public body shall refer the
matter to the Commissioner for a determination
as to whether the other jurisdiction has
comparable safeguards as provided by this
Act and inform the individual to whom the
personal information relates, of the referral.
(5) Upon a referral under subsection (4)(b), the
Commissioner shall make a determination whether the
other jurisdiction has or does not have comparable
safeguards as provided by this Act, and inform the
public body accordingly.
(6) Where the public body is informed that the
jurisdiction to which the information is being sent—
(a) has comparable safeguards, the public body
shall inform the person concerned and
disclose the personal information;
(b) does not have comparable safeguards, the
public body shall inform the person
concerned and obtain his consent for the
disclosure—
(i) without limitation; or
(ii) with limitation on the information
sharing to the extent necessary to
ensure the protection of personal
privacy and information.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

33

47. (1) Every public body shall prepare a privacy Privacy impact
and
impact assessment, in the form prescribed by the assessment
mitigation
Commissioner, for any proposed enactment, system,
project, programme or activity where such enactment,
system, project, programme or activity would or would
reasonably be expected to substantially or materially
impact personal information.
(2) Upon preparation of a privacy impact assessment, every public body shall submit such privacy
impact assessment to the Commissioner for approval.
(3) Where a privacy impact assessment has been
submitted in accordance with subsection (2), the
Commissioner shall evaluate such privacy impact
assessment in accordance with the General Privacy
Principles set out in section 6 and where necessary,
make recommendations to the public body for
amendments.
(4) Where
the
Commissioner
makes
a
recommendation under subsection (3), the public body
shall make the necessary amendments to its privacy
impact assessment.
(5) Every public body shall take all reasonable
steps in accordance with its privacy impact assessment
to avoid unnecessary intrusions into personal privacy
when designing, implementing or enforcing enactments,
systems, projects, programmes or activities.
48. (1) The Head of a Public Body shall cause to be Personal information
included in personal information banks, all personal banks
information under the control or in the custody of the
public body that—
(a) has been used, is being used or is available
for use for an administrative purpose; or
(b) is organized or intended to be retrieved by
means of the name of an individual or by an
identifying number, symbol or other particular
assigned to an individual.

34

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), personal
information under the custody or control of the Archives
of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago that has
been transferred to it by a public body for historical or
archival purposes shall not be included in personal
information banks.
Information sharing

49. (1) Where a public body intends to share information
with other public bodies, it shall do so only pursuant to
an agreement in a manner prescribed by the
Commissioner by Order.
(2) An Order under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and two newspapers in daily
circulation in Trinidad and Tobago.

Data matching shall
be approved by
Commissioner

50. (1) Subject to subsection (5), before a public body
matches personal information from a set of data with
personal information from another set of data, whether
or not pursuant to an information sharing agreement,
the public body shall obtain the written authorization of
the Commissioner.
(2) In determining whether to authorize data
matching by a public body or public bodies, using a data
matching programme, the Commissioner shall consider
whether or not—
(a) the objective of the matching programme
relates to a matter of significant public
importance;
(b) the matching programme would achieve the
objective in a way which would achieve
monetary savings that are both significant
and quantifiable or will achieve other
significant benefits to society;
(c) the public interest in allowing the matching
programme to proceed outweighs the public
interest in adhering to the General Privacy
Principles set out in section 6 that the
programme would otherwise contravene; or

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

35

(d) the programme involves data or information
matching on a scale that is excessive, having
regard to the number of public bodies that
will be involved in the programme and the
amount of details about the individual that
would be matched under the programme.
(3) The Information Commissioner shall complete
his determination in respect of the data matching
request within sixty days of the request.
(4) In approving data matching by a public body or
public bodies, the Commissioner may impose whatever
terms and conditions that he considers appropriate.
(5) Where the Information Commissioner fails to
complete his determination in respect of a data matching
request under subsection (3), the public body may apply
to the Minister for a determination of the matter.
(6) In giving his authorization under subsection (1),
the Commissioner may give covering authorization to
allow the matching of data where such matching is part
of a system of practice approved by him.
51. (1) The Commissioner shall publish periodically, Personal information
but not less than annually, an index of the personal index
information that is held by the public bodies that
includes a summary of the following:
(a) the personal information banks that are in
the custody or control of each public body;
(b) the information sharing agreements entered
into by any public body with another public
body or other person;
(c) the data matching activities approved by the
Commissioner;
(d) the contact information of the official to
whom requests relating to personal information
contained in the data bank should be sent;

36

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(e) a statement of the purposes for which
personal information in the data bank was
obtained or compiled and a statement of the
uses consistent with those purposes for
which the information is used or disclosed;
(f) a statement of the retention and disposal
standards and practices that apply to the
personal information in the data bank; and
(g) privacy impact assessments prepared by any
Ministry of the Government of Trinidad and
Tobago.
(2) For the purpose of this section, “contact
information” means the title, business address, business
telephone and facsimile number and business e-mail of
an official or employee of the public body.
(3) Where the Commissioner publishes the index
of personal information held by public bodies under
subsection (1), such publication shall be made in the
Gazette and at least two newspapers in daily circulation
in Trinidad and Tobago.
Right of access to
personal information
in a public body

52. (1) Subject to section 53, every individual who is
in Trinidad and Tobago has a right to and shall on
request, be given access to—
(a) personal information about that individual
contained in a personal information bank in
the custody and control of a public body; and
(b) any other personal information about the
individual under the custody or control of a
public body with respect to which the
individual is able to provide sufficiently
specific information on the location of the
information as to render it reasonably
retrievable by the public body.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

37

(2) A request for access to personal information
shall be made to the public body that has control of the
personal information bank or of the information, as the
case may be, in the form approved by the Commissioner.
(3) The Head of a Public Body may, where
reasonable and in appropriate circumstances, provide
personal information in accordance with the provisions
of this Act in response to an oral request.
53. (1) A head of a public body may refuse to disclose Refusal of access to
personal information to the individual to whom the personal information
information relates where—
(a) the disclosure would constitute an unjustified
invasion of another individual’s personal
privacy;
(b) the disclosure could reasonably be expected
to reveal information supplied in confidence;
(c) it is evaluative or opinion material compiled
solely for the purpose of determining
suitability, eligibility or qualifications for
employment or for the awarding of government
contracts and other benefits where the
disclosure would reveal the identity of a
source who furnished information to the
institution in circumstances where it may
reasonably be assumed that the identity of
the source would be held in confidence; and
(d) a disclosure would result in disclosure of
information that is exempt from disclosure
under Part IV of the Freedom of Information Chap. 22:02
Act.
(2) The Head of a Public Body may disregard
requests from an individual for access to that individual’s
personal information where it would unreasonably
interfere with the operations of the public body because
of the repetitious or systematic nature of the requests or
the requests are frivolous or vexatious.

38
Severance and
refusal to disclose
existence of
information

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

54. (1) The Head of a Public Body shall make every
effort to sever information that is exempt from disclosure
pursuant to section 53 from information that may be
made available to the individual requesting access to his
personal information and make the non-exempt
information available.
(2) Where acknowledgment of the existence of
information that is exempt from disclosure would reveal
critical information about the nature or contents of the
information, the Head of a Public Body may refuse to
disclose the existence of the information.

Exercise of rights of
deceased persons, etc.

55. Any right or power conferred on an individual by
this Act may be exercised—
(a) where the individual is deceased, by the
individual’s personal representative if the
exercise of the right or power relates to the
administration of the individual’s estate;
(b) by the individual’s attorney under a power of
attorney;
(c) by the individual’s guardian; or
(d) where the individual is less than eighteen
years of age, by a person who has lawful
custody of the individual.

Responsibilities of
public bodies

56. (1) Where a request is made for access to personal
information pursuant to section 52, the head of the
public body shall, within thirty days of the request being
received where access is—
(a) granted in whole or in part, give the
information to the individual who made the
request; or
(b) refused in whole or in part, give the individual
who made the request a written response
stating—
(i) that the information does not exist;
or

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

39

(ii) the specific provision of the Act on
which a refusal could reasonably be
expected to be based if the information
existed; or
(c) refused in whole or in part, give the individual
who made the request information regarding
the right of appeal to the Commissioner.
(2) Where access is granted in whole or in part, the
head of the public body shall ensure that the information
is available in a comprehensive form, including where
reasonable, comprehensible to an individual with a
sensory disability.
57. (1) Where an individual believes there is an error Right to request
of
or omission in his personal information, the individual correction
personal information
may request the Head of a Public Body that has the
information in its custody or under its control, to correct
the information.
(2) If no correction is made in response to a
request under subsection (1), the Head of a Public Body
shall annotate the information with the correction that
was requested but not made and notify the individual
who made the request that no correction was made.
(3) On correcting or annotating personal
information under this section, the Head of a Public
Body shall notify any other public body or any third
party to whom that information has been disclosed
during the one-year period before the correction was
requested, of such correction or annotation.
(4) Upon being notified under subsection (3) of a
correction or annotation of personal information, a public
body shall make the correction or annotation on any
record of that information in its custody or control.
58. An individual who has filed a request for his Appeal to
personal information pursuant to section 52 or who has Information
Commissioner
requested correction of personal information pursuant
to section 57 may appeal any decision of the head of the
public body to the Commissioner.

40
Time for application

Complaints to the
Commissioner

Immediate dismissal

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

59. An appeal to the Commissioner under section 58
shall be made within six weeks of the date when the
notice was given of the decision appealed from, by filing
with the Commissioner a written notice of appeal.
60. Where an individual has a reasonable belief that
a public body is not complying with the provisions of this
Act, he may make a complaint to the Commissioner.
61. The Commissioner may dismiss—
(a) an appeal if the notice of appeal does not
present a reasonable basis for concluding
that the personal information to which the
notice relates exists or is incorrect; or
(b) a complaint if the written complaint does
not contain sufficient particulars to make a
determination of non-compliance with the
provisions of this Act.

Informing of notice
of appeal

Mediation

Enquiry by the
Commissioner

62. Upon receiving the notice of appeal under section
59, or a complaint under section 60, the Commissioner
shall inform the Head of a Public Body concerned and
any other affected person of the notice of appeal or the
complaint.
63. The Commissioner may authorize a mediator to
investigate the circumstances of the appeal under
section 58 and to try to effect a settlement of the matter
under appeal.
64. (1) The Commissioner may conduct an enquiry to
review the decision of the Head of a Public Body, or a
complaint in respect of a public body, if the Commissioner
has—
(a) not authorized a mediator to conduct an
investigation under section 63; or
(b) authorized a mediator to conduct an
investigation under section 63, but no
settlement has been reached.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

41

(2) Where the Commissioner conducts an enquiry
under this section he may, on the conclusion of such
enquiry in respect of—
(a) a request for access either—
(i) affirm the decision of the Head of a
Public Body; or
(ii) order the Head of a Public Body to
release the personal information or
make the corrections requested;
(b) a complaint—
(i) dismiss the complaint; or
(ii) order the Head of the Public Body
to comply with the relevant
provisions of this Act deemed to be
in breach.
(3) Where an enquiry is conducted under this
section, it may be conducted by the Commissioner on his
own or by a tribunal comprising the Commissioner and
one or more Deputy Commissioners.
(4) A person aggrieved by a decision of the
Commissioner or the tribunal under this section may
apply to the High Court for Judicial Review.
65. The enquiry by the Commissioner or a mediator Enquiry in private
and any meetings held by a mediator with parties to the
appeal may be conducted in private.
66. The individual who requested access to or Representations
correction of personal information, the Head of a Public
Body concerned and any affected party shall be given
the opportunity to make representations to the
Commissioner, but none is entitled to—
(a) be present during;
(b) have access to; or
(c) comment on,
representations made to the Commissioner by any other
person.

42
Right to counsel or
an agent

Burden of proof

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

67. An individual who requests access to personal
information, the Head of a Public Body concerned and
any affected party may be represented by counsel or an
agent.
68. Where a public body refuses to give access to
personal information, the burden of proof that the
information lies within one of the specified exemptions
of the Act is on a balance of probabilities and lies upon
the public body.
PART IV
PROTECTION

Application of
General Privacy
Principles

OF

PERSONAL DATA BY THE PRIVATE SECTOR

69. A person who—
(a) collects, retains, manages, uses, processes or
stores personal information in Trinidad and
Tobago;
(b) collects personal information from individuals
in Trinidad and Tobago; or
(c) uses an intermediary or telecommunications
service provider located in Trinidad and
Tobago to provide a service in furtherance of
paragraph (a) or (b),
shall follow the General Privacy Principles set out in
section 6 in dealing with personal information.

Codes of practice

70. The Commissioner shall consult with industry to
promote the application of the General Privacy
Principles through the development of codes of practice
through such means as—
(a) providing guidance on the development of
codes of practice;
(b) providing guidance on complaint resolution
mechanisms;
(c) fostering education on the General Privacy
Principles;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

43

(d) working with government and private sector
bodies to promote awareness of codes of
conduct among consumers; and
(e) taking any action that appears to the
Commissioner to be appropriate.
71. (1) Notwithstanding section 69 where, in the Commissioner may
development
opinion of the Commissioner, the public interest require
of code of conduct
warrants the immediate and mandatory development of
codes of conduct dealing with the application of the
General Privacy Principles to a particular industry,
economic sector, or activity, the Commissioner may, by
Order, require the development of a code of conduct and
set a time limit for its development.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), where there is an
appropriate government regulator of an industry,
economic sector or activity, the Commissioner may
request the regulator to oversee the development of the
code of conduct for that industry, economic sector or
activity.
72. (1) Where a mandatory code of conduct is developed Cross border
of
pursuant to section 71, it shall require at a minimum disclosure
personal information
that personal information under the custody or control
of an organization shall not be disclosed by that
organization to any third party without the consent of
the individual to whom it relates, except in general,
where such information is disclosed for the purposes—
(a) for which the information was collected or
for use consistent with that purpose;
(b) of a Court Order; or
(c) of complying with any written law.
(2) Where personal information under the
custody and control of an organization is to be disclosed
to a party residing in another jurisdiction, the
organization shall inform the individual to whom it
relates of the—
(a) purpose for which the information is being
collected once that purpose is known to the
organisation;

44

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(b) identity of—
(i) the person requesting the information;
and
(ii) the relevant public body with
responsibility for Data Protection
in the other jurisdiction,
and obtain his consent before disclosing the information.
(3) Where a person under subsection (2) does not
consent to the release of his personal information, the
organization shall not so disclose.
(4) Where a person under subsection (2) consents
to the disclosure of his information and the organization
is—
(a) satisfied that the jurisdiction to which the
information is being sent has comparable
safeguards as provided by this Act, the
organization shall disclose the personal
information;
(b) not satisfied that the jurisdiction to which
the information is being sent has comparable
safeguards, the organization shall refer the
matter to the Commissioner for a
determination as to whether the other
jurisdiction has comparable safeguards as
provided by this Act and inform the individual
to whom the personal information relates of
the referral.
(5) Upon a referral under subsection (4), the
Commissioner shall make a determination whether the
other jurisdiction has or does not have comparable
safeguards as provided by this Act, and inform the
organization accordingly.
(6) Where the organization is informed that the
jurisdiction to which the information is being sent—
(a) has comparable safeguards, the organization
shall inform the person concerned and
disclose the personal information; or

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

45

(b) does not have comparable safeguards, the
organization shall inform the person
concerned and obtain his consent for the
disclosure—
(i) without limitation on the personal
information; or
(ii) with limitation on the personal
information sharing to the extent
necessary to ensure the protection
of personal privacy and information.
73. (1) Where a mandatory code of conduct is Approval of code of
developed, the sector shall apply to the Commissioner conduct
for the approval of such code prior to its use.
(2) Where a voluntary code of conduct is developed,
the sector may apply to the Commissioner for the
approval of such code prior to its use.
(3) The Commissioner may approve a code of conduct
dealing with compliance with the General Privacy
Principles set out in section 6 developed by an industry
sector, an industry organization or a professional body.
(4) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that a
code of conduct submitted for approval in accordance
with subsection (1) or (2) meets the requirements set out
in subsection (5), he shall approve the code of conduct.
(5) In approving a code of conduct, the
Commissioner shall consider—
(a) compliance with the General Privacy
Principles set out in section 6;
(b) use and adequacy of dispute resolution
mechanisms within the industry as well as
within individual firms;
(c) the potential for development or
encouragement of anti-competitive conduct;
(d) the adequacy of the process used to develop
the code of conduct, including involvement of
stakeholders, such as relevant consumers,
suppliers and other interested groups;

46

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(e) the role of industry sector regulators if any;
and
(f) any other matters that the Commissioner
considers relevant.
Mandatory codes of
conduct

Right of access to
personal information

74. (1) Where the Commissioner has approved a code
of conduct, the Minister may by Order, make compliance
with the code mandatory with respect to those to whom
the code of conduct applies under this Act.
(2) An Order made by the Minister under
subsection (1), shall be subject to negative resolution of
Parliament.
(3) Where a code of conduct has been made
mandatory under subsection (1), the persons or
enterprises to whom or to which it applies shall comply
with the provisions of the code of conduct.
(4) Without limiting the generality of subsection
(1), where a government regulator has jurisdiction over
an industry, economic sector or activity so that the code
of conduct dealing with the application of the General
Privacy Principles can be made mandatory pursuant to
other legislation, the regulator may make a code of
conduct approved by the Commissioner mandatory.
(5) Where an industry regulator has mandated
compliance in dealing with the protection of personal
privacy that has been approved by the Commissioner
and the legislation under which the code of conduct has
been made mandatory has adequate provisions for
complaint resolution and sanctions for non-compliance
with the provisions of the code of conduct, the
Commissioner may forebear from exercising his powers
with respect to compliance.
75. (1) An individual who has personal information
stored in an organization which is subject to a mandatory
code of conduct has a right to and shall on request, be
given access to—
(a) personal information about that individual
in the custody and control of the organisation;
and

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

47

(b) any other personal information about the
individual under the custody or control of
the organization with respect to which the
individual is able to provide sufficiently
specific information on the location of the
information as to render it reasonably
retrievable by the organisation.
(2) A request for access to personal information
shall be made to the organization that has control of the
personal information in the form approved by the
Commissioner.
(3) The organisation may, where reasonable and
in appropriate circumstances, provide personal information
in accordance with the provisions of this Act in response
to an oral request.
76. (1) A corporation shall not process sensitive Limitation on
of
personal information in its possession unless it obtains processing
sensitive personal
the consent of the person to whom that sensitive information in the
possession of a
personal information relates.
corporation
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), sensitive
personal information may be processed—
(a) by a health care professional or an employee
or agent of a health care body at the direction
of a health care professional for the purposes
of health and hospital care where it is
necessary for—
(i) preventative medicine and the
protection of public health;
(ii) medical diagnosis;
(iii) health care and treatment; and
(iv) the management of health and
hospital care services;
(b) where it has been made public by the person
to whom such information relates;
(c) for research and statistical purposes in
accordance with section 43; and
(d) where the disclosure is required by written
law.

48

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

Chap. 29:50

(3) For the purpose of this section, “health care
professional” means a person registered under the—
(a) Medical Board Act;

Chap. 29:54

(b) Dental Profession Act;

Chap. 29:51

(c) Opticians Registration Act;

Chap. 29:52

(d) Pharmacy Board Act;

Chap. 29:53

(e) Nurses and Midwives Registration Act;

Chap. 90:04

(f) Professions Related to Medicine Act; and

Act No. 8 of 2009

Refusal of request
for access to personal
information

Request for review
or complaint to the
Commissioner

(g) Emergency Ambulance Services and
Emergency Medical Personnel Act; 2009.
(4) A person who contravenes this section commits
an offence.
77. (1) The head of an organization subject to a
mandatory code of conduct may, upon the written
authorization of the Commissioner, disregard a request
from an individual for access to that individual’s
personal information where it would unreasonably
interfere with the operations of the organization
because of the repetitious or systematic nature of the
requests or the requests are frivolous or vexatious.
(2) Where an organization disregards a request
under subsection (1) it shall notify the individual
making the request.
78. Where an organization is subject to a mandatory
code of conduct and an individual has a reasonable
belief that the organization has within its custody or
control personal information regarding that individual,
the individual may—
(a) where the individual has requested access to
or the correction of personal information
held by an organization and the organization
has refused such request, ask the
Commissioner to conduct a review of the
resulting decision, act or failure to act of the
organization; or

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

49

(b) make a complaint to the Commissioner
regarding an alleged failure of the organization
to comply with the provisions of the mandatory
code of conduct.
79. A request for a review by, or a complaint to the Time for application
review or
Commissioner shall be made within six weeks of the for
complaint
date of the decision or six weeks from which the failure
to comply with the mandatory codes of conduct first
became known or should have become known.
79A. Where an individual has a reasonable belief that Complaint to the
on
an organisation is not complying with the provisions of Commissioner
non-compliance
this Act, he may make a complaint to the Commissioner.
80. The Commissioner may not entertain—
Immediate dismissal
of request for review
(a) a request for a review of the decision where or complaint
the written request does not present a
reasonable basis for concluding that the
personal information to which the request
relates, exists; or
(b) a complaint under section 78 or 79A where
the written complaint does not contain
enough particulars to make a determination
of non-compliance with the mandatory code
of conduct on the part of the organization or
this Act.
81. Upon receiving the written request or complaint Notification of
under section 78 or 79A, the Commissioner shall inform request or complaint
the head of the organization concerned and any other
affected person of the request or complaint.
82. (1) Subject to section 83(2), the Commissioner Enquiry of request
may conduct an enquiry into a request or complaint or complaint
under section 78 or 79A.
(2) Where the Commissioner conducts an enquiry
under this section he may, on the conclusion of such
enquiry in respect of—
(a) a request for access to information or the
correction of information—
(i) affirm the decision of the organization;

50

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(ii) order the head of an organization to
release the personal information or
make the correction requested; or
(iii) make the correction requested; or
(b) a complaint—
(i) dismiss the complaint; or
(ii) order the head of the organization
to comply with the provisions of the
mandatory code of conduct or this
Act.
(3) Where an enquiry is conducted under
this section, it may be conducted by the Commissioner
on his own or by a tribunal comprising the
Commissioner and one or more Deputy Commissioners.
(4) A person aggrieved by a decision of the
Commissioner or the tribunal under this section may
apply to the High Court for Judicial Review.
Mediation of request

83. (1) The Commissioner may authorize a mediator
to investigate the circumstances of the request under
section 78 and to try to effect a settlement of the matter.
(2) Where the Commissioner has—
(a) not authorized a mediator to conduct an
investigation under subsection (1); or
(b) authorized a mediator to conduct an
investigation under subsection (1) but no
settlement has been reached,
he may conduct an enquiry into a request under section 82.

Enquiry of request to
be conducted in
private

Representations

84. An enquiry by the Commissioner or a mediator
and any meetings held by a mediator with parties to the
request may be conducted in private.
85. An individual who requested access to, the
correction of personal information or who made a
complaint, the head of the organization concerned and

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

51

any affected party shall be given the opportunity to
make representations to the Commissioner, but none is
entitled to—
(a) be present during;
(b) have access to; or
(c) comment on,
representations made to the Commissioner by any other
person.
86. Every director and officer of a corporation shall Duties of directors
take reasonable care to ensure that the corporation
complies with—
(a) this Act and the regulations made thereunder;
and
(b) any Orders imposed by the Commissioner or
his delegate.
PART V
CONTRAVENTION

AND

ENFORCEMENT

87. A person who wilfully obstructs the Information Obstruction
Commissioner or any other person acting for or under
the direction of the Commissioner in the course of
carrying out an audit or an investigation, commits an
offence.
88. (1) A person who makes a request for access to or False and
correction of personal information under false misleading
statements
pretences, commits an offence.
(2) A person who wilfully makes a false statement
to mislead or attempts to mislead the Commissioner in
the performance of his functions under this Act, commits
an offence.
89. A person who fails to comply with an order of the Failure to comply
with an order
Commissioner, commits an offence.
90. A person who contravenes the provisions of Violation of whistleblowing provisions
section 99, commits an offence.

52

No. 13

Offence for not
complying with
mandatory code of
conduct

91. Where a person to whom a mandatory code of
conduct applies under section 74 fails to comply with
such mandatory code of conduct, he commits an offence.

Contravention of Act

Data Protection

2011

92. (1) A person who wilfully discloses personal
information in contravention of this Act, commits an
offence.
(2) A person who collects, stores or disposes of
personal information in a manner that contravenes this
Act commits an offence.

Breach of obligations
of confidentiality

Offences by directors
and officers

Penalties

93. A person who breaches the confidentiality
obligations established by section 25, commits an
offence.
94. Where a corporation commits an offence under
this Act, any officer, director or agent of the corporation
who directed, authorized, assented to, or participated in
the commission of the offence is a party to and commits an
offence and is liable to the punishment provided for the
offence.
95. (1) A person who commits an offence under this
Act is liable upon—
(a) summary conviction, to a fine of not more than
fifty thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a
term of three years; and
(b) conviction on indictment, to a fine of not
more than one hundred thousand dollars or
to imprisonment for a term of not more than
five years.
(2) Where the offence under this Act is committed
by a body corporate, the body corporate shall be liable
upon—
(a) summary conviction, to a fine of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars; and
(b) conviction on indictment, to a fine of five
hundred thousand dollars.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

96. (1) Where a corporation contravenes any of the
provisions of this Act, the Court may impose a fine of up
to ten per cent of the annual turnover of the enterprise.

53
Penalties for
corporations

(2) In imposing a fine under subsection (1), the
Court shall take into account—
(a) the estimate of the economic cost of the
contravention to the consumers, users of the
services in question or any other person
affected by the contravention;
(b) the estimate of the economic benefit of the
contravention to the enterprise;
(c) the time for which the contravention is in
effect if continuing;
(d) the number and seriousness of any other
contraventions, if any, committed by the
corporation; and
(e) any other matter the Court may consider
appropriate in the circumstances.
PART VI
MISCELLANEOUS
97. The Minister may order a public body or a Costs of audit
corporation to pay the costs reasonably incurred in the
performance of an audit pursuant to sections 20 and 21.
98. (1) The Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and Jurisdiction of the
Court
determine—
(a) applications by the Information Commissioner
for any Order which the Court considers
appropriate to facilitate the enforcement of
any provisions of this Act; and
(b) upon application by the Information
Commissioner,
cases
involving
any
contravention of the provisions of this Act
and make such appropriate Orders in
relation thereto.

54
Whistle-blowing
protection

Regulations

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

99. An employer whether or not a public body, shall
not dismiss, suspend, demote, discipline, harass or
otherwise disadvantage an employee or deny that
employee a benefit, because—
(a) the employee acting in good faith, and on the
basis of reasonable belief has—
(i) notified the Commissioner that the
employer or any other person has
contravened or is about to
contravene this Act;
(ii) done or stated the intention of
doing anything that is required to
be done in order to avoid having
any person contravene this Act; or
(iii) refused to do or stated the intention
of refusing to do anything that is in
contravention of this Act; or
(b) the employer believes that the employee will
do anything described in paragraph (a).
100. (1) The Minister may make Regulations for the
purpose of—
(a) prescribing anything required to be
prescribed under this Act; and
(b) giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
(2) Regulations made under this section shall be
subject to negative resolution of Parliament.

Chap. 22:02 amended

101. The Freedom of Information Act is amended
in—
(a) section 4—
(i) by inserting after the definition of
“applicant” the following definitions:
“ “decision of a public authority”
means the refusal of a public
authority to grant access to
an official document or the
failure of a public authority
to comply with section 15
or 16(1) herein;

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

“Information Commissioner”
means the person appointed
pursuant to section 8 of
the Data Protection Act;”;
(ii) by deleting the definition of “personal
information” and substituting the
following definition:
“personal information” has the
meaning assigned to it in
the Data Protection Act;”;
(iii) in the definition of “public
authority”—
(A) in paragraph (j), by deleting
the word “or”;
(B) by inserting after the
words “control;” the word
“or”;
(C) by
inserting
after
paragraph (k) the following
new paragraph:
“(l) the Office of
Information
Commissioner as
appointed under
section 7 of the
Data Protection
Act.”;
(b) section 23(1) in paragraph (d), by deleting
the words “High Court for judicial” and
substituting the words “Information
Commissioner for”;
(c) section 30, by deleting subsections (1), (2)
and (3) and substituting the following
subsections:
“ (1) A document is an exempt
document if its disclosure under this Act
would involve the disclosure of personal
information in a manner inconsistent
with the Data Protection Act.

55

56

No. 13

Data Protection

(2) The provisions of subsection (1)
shall not apply to a request by an
individual for his own personal
information, which request shall be
treated as a request under the Data
Protection Act.
(3) here a request by a person other
than a person referred to in subsection
(2) is made to a public body for access
to a document containing personal
information, the public body shall
proceed in accordance with the Data
Protection Act in deciding whether to
grant access to such request.”;
(d) section 36, by deleting subsection (1) and
substituting the following subsection:
“(1) Where a document (whether or
not it is one to which access has been
given under this Act) contains
personal information of an individual
and that individual believes that the
information is inaccurate, he shall
proceed, and the public body shall
address the matter in accordance with
section 57 of the Data Protection Act.”;
(e) section 38A—
(i) in subsection (1), by deleting
the word “Ombudsman”
wherever it occurs and
substituting the word
“ I n f o r m a t i o n
Commissioner”;
(ii) in subsection (2), by deleting
the word “Ombudsman”
and substituting the words,
“ I n f o r m a t i o n
Commissioner”; and

2011

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

(iii) by deleting subsection (3) and
substituting the following subsection:
“(3) The
decisions
of
the
Information Commissioner on issues
relating to this Act shall be binding on
Public Bodies.”; and
(iv) by inserting after subsection (3) the
following new subsection:
“(4) The Court shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine
applications by the Information
Commissioner for any Order which the
Court
considers appropriate to
facilitate the enforcement of any
provisions of this Act.;”
(f) section 39, by repealing subsection (3); and
(g) section 40, in—
(i) subsections (1) and (2), by deleting
the words “The Minister” wherever
they occur and substituting the
words “The Information Commissioner”;
and
(ii) subsection (3)(d), by deleting the
word “Ombudsman” and substituting
the word “Commissioner”.

57

58

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

SCHEDULE
PART A
(Section 8)
FORM

OF

OATH (AFFIRMATION)

FOR INFORMATION

COMMISSIONER

I, A. B. having been appointed Information Commissioner do
swear by ……….....… (solemnly affirm) that I bear true faith and
allegiance to Trinidad and Tobago and will uphold the Constitution
and the law, that I will conscientiously, impartially and to the best
of my knowledge, judgement and ability discharge the functions of
my office and do right to all manner of people after the laws and
usages of Trinidad and Tobago without fear or favour, affection or
ill-will.
PART B
(Section11)
FORM

OF

OATH (AFFIRMATION) FOR DEPUTY INFORMATION
COMMISSIONER

I, A. B. having been appointed Deputy Information
Commissioner do swear by …....……… (solemnly affirm) that I bear
true faith and allegiance to Trinidad and Tobago and will uphold
the Constitution and the law, that I will conscientiously, impartially
and to the best of my knowledge, judgement and ability discharge
the functions of my office and do right to all manner of people after
the laws and usages of Trinidad and Tobago without fear or favour,
affection or ill-will.

No. 13

Data Protection

2011

Passed in the House of Representatives this 11th day
of February, 2011.

Clerk of the House

Passed in the Senate this 23rd day of May, 2011.

Clerk of the Senate

Senate Amendments agreed to by the House of
Representatives on this 3rd day of June, 2011.

Clerk of the House

59

