DATA PROTECTION
IN TURKEY

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Sokak No:6 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // www.kvkk.gov.tr

2

DATA PROTECTION
IN TURKEY
2

3

4

The Law on the Protection of Personal Data No. 6698 was
published in the Official Gazette on 7 April 2016 and 29677
numbered entered into force. Turkish Data Protection Authority
was established under the same Law in Ankara.
Turkish Data Protection Authority has been established as an
independent regulatory authority having organisational and
financial autonomy and having a public legal entity in order to
fulfill the duties under the Law. The Authority is composed of the
Personal Data Protection Board and the Presidency.
Personal Data Protection Board consists of nine members. Five
members of the Board are elected by Grand National Assembly
of Turkey, two members by the President of the Republic and
two members by the Council of Ministers1. The selection and
appointment process of the Board members was completed at
the end of 2016 and the Board started its duty on January 12,
2017 when the members took the oath in the Court of Cassation
Board of First Presidency.
The mission of the Authority is to provide the protection of
personal data and develop awareness in this respect in the
public eye in line with the fundamental rights related with privacy
and freedom stated in the Constitution, as well as to establish
an environment to enhance the capability of competition of the
public and private organizations in the world of data-driven
economy. Our goal is to be influential in arising the public
awareness related with personal data protection and to be a
globally accepted authority in this area.
1
According to Article 163 of the Decree Law no:703 (02/07/2018), the
amendment of the paragraphe 2 of article 21 shall come into force. Five members
of the Board are elected by Grand National Asembly of Turkey, four members by
the President of the Republic.

5

What is
Personal Data?
Personal Data is any information
relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person. In this case, it can be
said that basically two criteria are
used to differentiate personal data
from non-personal data. Accordingly,
in order that any data is defined as
personal data, the data must be
related to a person and that person
must be identified or identifiable.

PERSONAL
DATA

6

Who is Data
Subject?
Data protection only applies to the
data of the natural persons under
the Law. Therefore, “data subject” is
used in the Law to express natural
person whose personal data is
being processed. The person to
be protected is “natural person”
as stated in the definitions in the
Regulation.
If personal data of a legal person
identifies or makes identifiable
a natural person, these data are
protected under the Law as well.
However, interest to be protected
here belongs to the natural person,
not legal person, since the Law does
not cover the processing of personal
data concerning legal persons.

DATA
SUBJECT

7

Who is Data
Controller?

Data controller is the natural or
legal person who determines the
purposes for which and means by
which personal data is processed and
is responsible for establishing and
managing the data registry system.
Legal persons are themselves
“controllers”
while
processing
personal data, liabilities stated
in the relevant regulations shall
belong to the legal persons. There
is no difference between public legal
persons and private legal persons.

DATA
CONTROLLER

According to the law, controller is
the person who determines the
purposes for which and means by
which personal data is processed.
In other words, it is the person who
shall answer the questions of “why”
and “how” of the processing activities.

8

What is
Processing of
Personal Data ?
Processing of personal data is
the series of operations that are
carried out on personal data such
as collection, recording, storage,
retention, alteration, re-organization,
disclosure, transferring, taking over,
making retrievable, classification or
preventing the use thereof, fully or
partially through automatic means
or through non-automatic means
only for the process which is a part
of any data registry system set out in
the Law.

PERSONAL
DATA

9

Key Principles in Processing
of Personal Data
The procedures and principles for the processing of personal
data in Article 4 of the Law are regulated in parallel with the
Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to
Automatic Processing of Personal Data No. 108 and the European
Union Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC. Key principles set out
in the Law which state that data must be:
•

Processed lawfully and fairly.

•

Accurate and where necessary, kept up-to-date.

•

Processed for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes.

•

Relevant, limited and proportionate to the purposes for
which they are processed.

•

Retained for the period of time determined by the relevant
legislation or the period deemed necessary for the purpose
of the processing.

All personal data processing must be carried out in accordance
with these principles.

10

Requirements for Personal
Data Processing
a) Personal Data
Personal Data is any information relating to an identified or
identifiable natural person.
As per Article 5 of the Law, processing of personal data shall
only be exercised in case of the existence of following provisions.
Personal data can be processed in case;
•

The data subject has given his explicit consent,

•

It is explicitly provided for by the laws,

•

It is mandatory for the protection of life or to prevent the
physical injury of a person, in cases where that person
cannot express consent or whose consent is legally invalid
due to physical disability,

•

Processing of personal data belonging to the parties of a
contract is necessary provided that it is directly related to the
conclusion or fulfilment of that contract.

•

It is mandatory for the controller to fulfil its legal obligations.

•

The data is made manifestly public by the data subject.

•

Data processing is mandatory for the establishment,
exercise or protection of any right.

•

It is mandatory for the legitimate interests of the controller,
provided that such processing shall not violate the
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subjects.

Principles regarding processing of personal data are limited
under the Law and cannot be extended.

11

It is not necessary to obtain explicit
consent, in case data processing is
based on the conditions which are
referred to in the Law other than
explicit consent. Obtaining explicit
consent when there are other
statutory justifications to process the
data is misleading and deemed as
an abuse of rights by data controller.
In case of the withdrawal of explicit
consent by data subject, continuing
processing by data controller which
is based on the other legal bases is
deemed as processing against the
rules of the Law and honesty.

PERSONAL
DATA

Therefore, it is necessary to
evaluate whether the purpose of
the processing personal data by
the data controller is based on one
of the processing conditions other
than explicit consent. If this purpose
is not based on at least one of the
conditions which are referred to in the
Law other than explicit consent, it is
necessary to take explicit consent of
the data subject for data processing.

12

Key Points on Explicit
Consent
Explicit consent has been defined as consent that relates to a
specified issue, declared by free will and based on information.
Explicit consent means giving consent for his personal data to be
processed upon his own request or other party’s request under
the Law. The data subject shall actually express the decision on
his legal value to the data controller with his explicit consent.
Explicit consent shall enable the data subject to determine the
limits, scope, manner and time of the data which he consented
to process.
In this sense, explicit consent must include “positive declaration
of intention” of the data subject who consents. Without prejudice
to the regulations in the other legislation, it is not necessary to
take explicit consent in writing. It is also possible to take explicit
consent through electronic media and call centre etc. The burden
of proof here is on the data controller.
Under the definition of explicit consent set out in the Article 3 of
the Law, explicit consent has 3 following elements:
•
•
•

Related to a specified issue.
Based on information.
Declared by free will.

General explicit consents which are not restricted to a specified
issue and the relevant transaction are accepted as “blanket
consents” and are deemed legally invalid. For example; consent
statements which does not indicate a specified issue or
activity such as “all kinds of commercial transactions, banking
transactions and data processing activities” can be deemed
blanket consents.
13

EXPLİCİT
CONSENT

Giving explicit consent is strictly
binding right for the individual, data
subject can withdraw his explicit
consent. Since the data subject has
the right to determine the future of
his personal data, he can withdraw
his consent at any time.
However, withdrawal of explicit
consent will have a forward-looking
results, all transactions carried out
on the basis of explicit consent must
be stopped by data controller as of he
learns the withdrawal.

14

b) Sensitive Personal Data
Sensitive Personal Data, if obtained by others, can leave the
data subject open to discrimination or unfair treatment. For
this reason, sensitive personal data need to be protected more
strictly than other personal data. Sensitive personal data can only
be processed with the explicit consent of data subject or with any
of the conditions set out by the Law.
Sensitive data is explicitly defined in the Law. Personal data
relating to the race, ethnic origin, political opinion, philosophical
belief, religion, sect or other belief, clothing, membership of
associations, foundations or trade-unions, information relating
to health, sexual life, convictions and security measures, and
the biometric and genetic data are deemed to be sensitive data.
These are limited by Law, so it is not possible to extend them by
comparison.
The law also makes a distinction between sensitive data.
Accordingly, the processing without explicit consent of personal
data relating to health and sexual life and other sensitive data has
been regulated differently.
Under the law, sensitive data can be processed without explicit
consent of the data subject in the following cases:
•

Sensitive data excluding those relating to health and sexual
life can be processed only in the conditions set out by the
Law,

•

Personal data relating to health and sexual life may only
be processed, without explicit consent of the data subject,
by persons under an obligation of confidentiality or by
authorised institutions and establishments for the purposes
of protection of public health, protective medicine, medical
diagnosis, treatment and nursing services, planning and
management of health-care services as well as their
financing.

Additionally, Law provides that for the processing of sensitive
data adequate measures as determined by the Board must be
taken.
15

Transferring of Personal
Data
a) Transferring Personal Data inside Turkey
Article 8 of the Data Protection Law provides that personal
data which is obtained within the framework of the general
principles specified in the Law can only be transferred with
the explicit consent of the data subject. The Law stipulates the
same conditions for processing data and transferring data inside
Turkey. Article 8 also defines the conditions for transferring data
to the third parties without explicit consent.
On the other hand, since personal data is processed legally in
Turkey does not mean that the data can be directly transferred to
the third parties. Conditions set out Article 5 and 6 of the Law are
also stipulated for transferring of data.
If a transfer is to take place, one of the following conditions must
be met:
• The data subject has given his explicit consent,
•

It is explicitly provided for by the laws,

•

It is mandatory for the protection of life or to prevent the
physical injury of a person, in cases where that person
cannot express consent or whose consent is legally invalid
due to physical disability,

•

Processing of personal data belonging to the parties of a
contract is necessary provided that it is directly related to the
conclusion or fulfilment of that contract.

•

It is mandatory for the controller to fulfil its legal obligations.

•

The data is made manifestly public by the data subject.

•

Data processing is mandatory for the establishment,
exercise or protection of any right.

16

•

It is mandatory for the legitimate
interests of the controller, provided
that such processing shall not
violate the fundamental rights and
freedoms of the data subjects.

If a transfer of sensitive personal data
is to take place, one of the following
conditions must be met:
•

The data subject has given his
explicit consent,

•

Sensitive data excluding those
relating to health and sexual life is
explicitly provided for by the Laws,

•

Personal data relating to health
and sexual life, by persons under
an obligation of confidentiality
or by authorised institutions and
establishments for the purposes
of protection of public health,
protective
medicine,
medical
diagnosis, treatment and nursing
services, planning and management
of health-care services as well as
their financing,

Personal data is only the information
relating to the natural person. However
“data controller” and “data processor” can
be both natural person and legal person.
Any natural or legal person who carries
out a transaction on personal data is
either data controller or data processor
according to the purpose and method
relating to the data processing. In this
context, it is necessary to comply with
the Article 8 of the Data Protection Law
for all kinds of data transfer between
these persons.

17

TRANSFER OF
DATA

b) International Transfer of Personal Data
As required under Article 9 of the Law, a cross-border transfer
may take place in one of the following cases that;
•

The data subject has given his explicit consent,

•

The country is approved by Board as “Adequate Country”
and existence of the circumstances provided for in second
paragraph of Article 5 and third paragraph of Article 6 of the
Law,

•

If the country is not approved by Board as “Adequate
Country”, then data controllers in Turkey and abroad commit
in writing to provide an adequate level of protection and the
Board has authorized this transfer where existence of the
circumstances referred to in second paragraph of Article 5
and third paragraph of Article 6 of the Law),

The Law has the same conditions/requirements for processing
personal data and transferring personal data abroad.

18

International Transfer

Explicit consent

Circumstances provided for
Articles 5/2 and 6/3 of the
Law

Adequate level of
protection in the third
country

Inadequate level of
protection in the third
country
*Data controller’s
commitment in writing
*Board’s approval

* The list of approved countries shall be determined and announced by
the Board.

19

Rights of Data Subject
Pursuant to Article 11 of the Law, by applying to the data
controller data subject is entitled to:

•

Learn whether or not personal data is being
processed,

•

Request further information about processing if
personal data relating to him is being processed,

•

Learn the purpose of processing of personal
data and whether personal data is being used
consistently with the purpose,

•

Know the third parties in the country or abroad to
whom personal data is transferred,

•

Request rectification of personal data if processed
incompletely or inaccurately,

•

Request erasure or destruction of personal data,

•

Request notification of the rectification, erasure or
destruction to the third parties to whom personal
data has been transferred,

•

Object to the processing, exclusively by automatic
means of his personal data, which leads to an
unfavourable consequence for the data subject,

•

Request compensation for the damage arising from
the unlawful processing of his personal data.

20

Methods for Seeking
Rights of Data Subject
a) Right to Apply
Data subject has the right to apply to the data controller to
learn whether his personal data is processed or not, to request
information if his personal data is processed, to request the
rectification of the incomplete or inaccurate data, if any, to request
the erasure or destruction of his personal data if it is unlawful, to
request notification of the operations carried out in compliance
with this to the third parties to whom his personal data has been
transferred and to request compensation for the damage arising
from the unlawful processing of his personal data.
Data subject shall submit his request relating to the enforcement
of the Law to the data controller. The Law provides for a gradual
application procedure for the requests relating to da personal
data protection. Data subject cannot make a complaint to the
Board before exhausting the application process to the data
controller.
The right to compensation under the general provisions of those
whose personal rights are violated is reserved in the Law.

21

There are two basic provisions
relating to the means of
applications which shall be made
to the data controller in the Law.
One of these means is written
application. Written application
is deemed as the application
made with the document
containing
handwritten
signature in accordance with the
general provisions. In addition,
the documents with the secure
electronic signature shall meet
the conditions of written form.
Personal
Data
Protection
Board has been authorised
to determine other means
of application except written
application in the Law. The
Board has determined means
of applications to be made to the
data controller with secondary
legislation.
22

a) Right to Complain
If the request (SAR) as per
Article 13 of the Law is refused,
the response of the controller
is found unsatisfactory or
the response is not given by
the controller within 30 days,
the data subject may file a
complaint. Data subject shall
not contact to the Board before
exhausting all process.

complaint or ex officio.
The notices and complaints
not meeting the requirements
laid down in Article 6 of the
Law on the Use of Right to
Petition shall not be examined.
Except for the information
and documents having the
status of state secret, the
controller shall be obliged
to communicate with the
Board within fifteen days the
information and documents
requested and shall enable,
where necessary, on-the-spot
examination.

The data subject may file a
complaint with the Board
within thirty days as of he
learns about the response of
the controller, or within sixty
days as of the application date,
in any case.

The Board shall finalize the
examination upon complaint
and give an answer to data
subjects. In case the Board fails
to answer the data subject’s
application in sixty days as
of the application date, it is
deemed rejected. Accordingly,
the period of filing a lawsuit
in the administrative judiciary
will begin with the passage of
sixty days as of the date of the
complaint.

Article 15 of the Law provides
for the procedures and
principles of the examination
to be made by the Board.
Accordingly,
the
Board
shall make the necessary
examination in the matters
falling within its scope of
work upon complaint or ex
officio, where it learnt about
the alleged violation. This
examination shall comply
with alleged violation upon

23

Following the examination
made upon complaint or
ex officio, in cases where
it is understood that an
infringement
exists,
the
Board shall decide that the
identified
infringements
shall be remedied by the
relevant controller and notify
this decision to all it may
concern. This decision shall
be implemented without delay
and within thirty days after
the notification at the latest.
Following the examination
made upon complaint or
ex officio, in cases where
it is determined that the
infringement is widespread,
the Board shall adopt and

publish a resolution in this
regard. Before adopting the
resolution, the Board may also
refer to the opinions of related
institutions and organizations,
if needed.
The Board may decide that
processing of data or its
transfer abroad should be
stopped if such operation
may lead to damages that
are difficult or impossible
to recover and if it is clearly
unlawful. It is possible for the
interested parties to file an
action at the administrative
courts against decisions made
by the Board.

24

Obligations of Data
Controller
a) Obligation to Inform

The law gives data subject a right to be informed about by
whom, for what purposes and for which legal reasons/basis
their data are to be processed, for what purposes and to whom
the data may be transferred, and these issues are addressed
under the obligation to inform of the controller.
Under Article 10 of the Law when collecting personal data, the
controller or the person authorised by him is obliged to inform
the data subjects about the following:
•

the identity of the controller and of his representative, if
any,

•

the purpose of data processing,

•

the recipients to whom the data can be transferred, and
the purpose of the transfer,

•

the methods and legal reasons of collection of personal
data,

•

other rights referred to in Article 11.

The controller is obliged to inform to the data subject when
the data processing adheres to the explicit consent of the data
subject or processing is carried out under another condition of
the Law. That is, the data subject should be informed in every
situation where his personal data is processed.

25

b) Erasure,
Destruction or
Anonymisation
of Personal
Data

Despite being processed under the provisions of the Law,
personal data shall be erased, destructed or anonymised by
the controller, ex officio or upon demand by the data subject,
upon disappearance of reasons which require the process.
Obligations of the controller are to erase, destruct or
anonymise personal data in cases where the reason of
processing disappears. It is not necessary for the data
subject to apply for this. However, in the event of negligence
of the controller, data subject has the right to request that
personal data shall be erased, destructed or anonymised.
Controller, who prepared personal data storage and
extermination policy, shall erase, destruct or anonymise
personal data in the first periodic extermination process
following the date on which the obligation to erase, destruct

26

or anonymise personal data occurs within the framework of
the Regulation on Erasure, Destruction or Anonymisa tion
of Personal Data.
Erasure of personal data is the process of rendering
personal data inaccessible and unusable for all relevant
users. Controllers are liable for taking any technical and
organisational measures to ensure that the erased personal
data can be inaccessible and unusable for all relevant users.
Destruction of personal data is the process of rendering
personal data inaccessible and unusable for any person.
Controllers are liable for taking any technical and
organisational measures required for destruction of
personal data.
Anonymisation of personal data is defined as rendering
personal data impossible to link with an identified or
identifiable natural person, even through matching them
with other data. For personal data to be anonymised,
personal data must be made irrelevant to identified or
identifiable natural person in spite of the use of appropriate
techniques in terms of the registry medium and the relevant
field of activity such as retrieving and matching personal
data with another data by controller, receiver or receiver
groups. Controllers are liable for taking any technical and
organisational measures for anonymisation of personal
data.
In addition, a Guide on Erasure, Destruction or Anonymisation
of Personal Data (“Guidelines”) has been prepared by the
Board to draw attention to various topics in order to clarify
the application and how to create good practice examples
based on the Regulation.

27

c) Data
Security
Requirements

According to the Article 12 on data security of the Law, the
controller is obliged to;
•
•
•

prevent unlawful processing of personal data,
prevent unlawful access to personal data,
ensure the retention of personal data.

The controller shall take all necessary technical and
organisational measures for providing an appropriate level
of security in order to fulfil these obligations. The Board
has power to take regulatory action in order to determine
security requirements. Besides that, additional measures
may be taken according to the nature of the sector-specific
processed data by taking into account the minimum criteria
determined by the Board.
In case of the processing of personal data by a natural or legal
person on behalf of the controller, the controller shall jointly

28

be responsible with these persons for taking the necessary
measures. Therefore, data processors are also obliged to
take measures to ensure data security. Accordingly, for
example, if the records of the data controller’s company are
held by an accounting company (data processor), controller
shall jointly be responsible with the accounting company
for taking the measures laid down in the first paragraph
regarding the processing of the data.
The controller shall also be obliged to be audited regarding to
data security under the Law. The controller shall be obliged
to conduct necessary auditions or have them conducted
in his own institution or organization, with the aim of
implementing the provisions of this Law. The controller can
conduct this audition by himself or through a third party.
The controllers and processors shall not disclose the
personal data they obtained/collected to third parties and
their purposes shall not be incompatible with the original
purposes for collecting the data against the provisions of
this Law. The controllers and processors shall remain
responsible for this obligation even after the termination of
their task.
In case the processed data are obtained unlawfully by other
parties, the controller shall notify the data subject and the
Board within undue delay. Where necessary, the Board
may announce such breach at its official website or through
other methods it deems appropriate.
The measures to be taken regarding data security shall
comply with the structure, activities and risks of each data
controller. For this reason, a single model of data security
cannot be provided for. The nature of the data controller’s
task and the personal data to be protected is also important
as well as the size and turnover of the company.
In this context, a Personal Data Security Guide has been
prepared by the Personal Data Protection Authority in
order to clarify the technical and organisational measures
in practice to be taken by the controller and to form good
practice examples during the processing of personal data.
29

d) Obligation
to Register
to Data
Controllers’
Registry

1) What’s Data Controllers’ Registry
Data Controllers’ Registry (VERBİS) is a registration system
where data controllers shall be registered to and record
the data processing activities they are engaged with.
Data controllers must register with the Registry which is
held by the Authority under the supervision of the Board.
Therefore, it is aimed to announce who data controllers are
and to exercise the right of personal data protection more
effectively.
The procedures and principles related to the Registry are
determined in the Regulation on the Data Controllers’
Registry.

2) Exemptions of Enrolling in the Registry of
Data Controllers
All data controllers are obliged to register with the Data
Controller’s Registry System (VERBİS) before processing
data.
30

However, Article 16 regarding the obligations of registering
with the VERBİS shall not be applied in the cases set forth in
the second paragraph of Article 28.
The Board has also the authorization to bring an exemption
to the obligation to register according to the Law. In
the implementation of the exemption, objective criteria
determined by the Board such as the nature and the number
of the processed personal data, legal requirements for data
processing, or data transfer to the third parties shall be
considered.
Obligation to register with VERBİS has the aim of the
establishment of a safer and transparent environment in
terms of clarification of personal data processing and to act
in compliance with the legislation for controllers.

3) Data Controllers’ Registry Requirements
Data controllers shall provide the following information to
register with Data Registry System (VERBIS):
•

Identifying information (including the address of the
data controller or its representative).

•

The purpose of the data processing.

•

The data subject groups and data categories (data
processing inventory).

•

Recipient or recipient groups to which the data may be
transferred.

•

Any personal data which may be transferred abroad.

•

The data security measures taken.

•

The maximum time for processing personal data
(which must be in accordance with the purpose of the
data processing).

In case of any change in the information listed above, such
change shall be notified to the Authority. Thus, it is aimed to
keep the record up to date.

31

e) Responding
to Data
Subject
Access
Request

The data controller is obliged to respond to the request (SAR)
which is made by the data subject in writing and by other means
determined by the Board within the thirty days of the receipt
at the latest and free of charge. However, data controller may
charge a fee set by the Board from the requestor if the request
necessitates responding fee.
The fee set by the Board is included in the Communiqué on
Procedures and Principles of the Application to Data Controllers.
The data controller shall accept the request or refuse it with
justified grounds and inform to data subject in written or
electronically (registered e-mail address, a secure electronic
signature, a mobile signature or an e-mail). If the request is
accepted, data controller shall fulfil the data subject’s request. If
a fee was charged, such fee must be repaid to the data subject
when the request is made due to the fault of the data controller.
Rejection of the application, insufficiency of the answer or the
failure to respond to the application within an appropriate time
period; the data subject becomes entitled to file a complaint to
the Board within 30 days following the date the data subject
become aware of the data controller’s response and 60 days of
receipt at most.
32

f) Requirements
of Decision
Notice
to be Fulfilled

If the Board determines the existence of a data breach
upon the complaint or ex officio, Board shall notify the
decision notice to all concerned including that the data
breach shall be settled by the relevant controller. The data
controller shall fulfil decision notice without undue delay
and within thirty days of receipt.

33

The Guidelines which we
have published so far are as
follows:
• Law on the Protection of Personal Data in 100 Questions
• Implementation Guideline on the Law on the Protection
of Personal Data
• Personal Data Security Guidelines (Technical and
Organisational Measures)
• Guideline on Erasure, Destruction or Anonymisation of
Personal Data
• Frequently Asked Questions About the Law on the
Protection of Personal Data
• Right to Request Protection of Personal Data as a
Constitutional Right
• Data Controller and Data Processor
• Data Controller’s Registry
• Methods for Seeking Rights of Data Subject
• Rights and Obligations Under the Law
• Processing Conditions of Personal Data
• Key Principles Regarding to Processing of Personal Data
• Explicit Consent
• Basic Concepts in the Law No. 6698
• Terms in the Law No. 6698
• The Purpose and Scope of the Law No. 6698 on the Protection
of Personal Data
• International and National Regulations for the Protection of
Personal Data
• The Need for the Law on the Protection of Personal Data
• Processing Conditions of Sensitive Personal Data
• International Transfer of Personal Data
• Structure and Duties of Personal Data Protection Board
34

35

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Sokak No:6 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // www.kvkk.gov.tr

