ACTS
SUPPLEMENT No. 2

14th Febuary, 2011.
ACTS SUPPLEMENT

to The Uganda Gazette No. 10 Volume CIV dated 14th February, 2011.
Printed by UPPC, Entebbe, by Order of the Government.

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

THE COMPUTER MISUSE ACT, 2011.
_________

2011

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS.
Section.

PART I—PRELIMINARY.

1. Commencement.
2. Interpretation.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

PART II—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Securing access.
Using a program.
Authorised access.
References.
Modification of contents.
Unauthorised modification.

PART III—INVESTIGATIONS AND PROCEDURES.

9. Preservation Order.
10. Disclosure of preservation Order.
11. Production Order.

PART IV—COMPUTER MISUSE OFFENCES.

12. Unauthorised access.
13. Access with intent to commit or facilitate commission of further
offence.
14. Unauthorised modification of computer material.
15. Unauthorised use or interception of computer service.
16. Unauthorised obstruction of use of computer.
17. Unauthorised disclosure of access code.

1

Act 2

Section.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

Computer Misuse Act

2011

Unauthorised disclosure of information.
Electronic fraud
Enhanced punishment for offences involving protected computers.
Abetments and attempts.
Attempt defined.
Child pornography.
Cyber harassment.
Offensive communication.
Cyber stalking.
Compensation.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS.

28. Search and seizure.
29. Administratively and evidential weight of a data message or an
electronic record.
30. Territorial jurisdiction.
31. Jurisdiction of courts.
32. Power of Minister to amend Schedule to this Act.
SCHEDULE.

Currency point.

2

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

THE COMPUTER MISUSE ACT, 2011

An Act to make provision for the safety and security of electronic
transactions and information systems; to prevent unlawful
access, abuse or misuse of information systems including
computers and to make provision for securing the conduct of
electronic transactions in a trustworthy electronic environment
and to provide for other related matters.
DATE OF ASSENT: 1st November, 2010.
Date of Commencement: See Section 1.
BE IT ENACTED by Parliament as follows:

PART I—PRELIMINARY.

1. Commencement.
This Act shall come into force on a date appointed by the Minister by
statutory instrument
2. Interpretation.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
3

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

“access” means gaining entry to any electronic system or data held
in an electronic system or causing the electronic system to
perform any function to achieve that objective;

“application” means a set of instructions that, when executed in
a computer system, causes a computer system to perform a
function and includes such a set of instructions held in any
removable storage medium which is for the time being in a
computer system;
“authorised officer” has the meaning assigned to it in section 28;
“child” means a person under the age of eighteen years;

“computer” means an electronic, magnetic, optical, electrochemical
or other data processing device or a group of such
interconnected or related devices, performing logical,
arithmetic or storage functions; and includes any data storage
facility or communications facility directly related to or
operating in conjunction with such a device or group of such
interconnected or related devices;
“computer output” or “output” means a statement, information
or representation, whether in written, printed, pictorial,
graphical or other form—
(a) produced by a computer; or

(b) accurately translated from a statement
representation so produced from a computer;

or

“computer service” includes computer time, data processing and
the storage retrieval of data;
“content” includes components of computer hardware and
software;

“currency point” means the value of a currency point specified
in the Schedule;
4

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

“damage” means any impairment to a computer or the integrity or
availability of data, program, system or information that—
(a) causes any loss;

(b) modifies or impairs or potentially modifies or impairs
the medical examination, diagnosis, treatment or care
of one or more persons;
(c) causes or threatens physical injury or death to any
person; or
(d) threatens public health or public safety;

“data” means electronic representations of information in any
form;

“data message” means data generated, sent, received or stored
by computer means; and includes—
(a) voice, where the voice is used in an automated
transaction; and
(b) a stored record;

“electronic device”, “acoustic device”, or “other device” means
any device or apparatus that is used or is capable of being
used to intercept any function of a computer;
“electronic record” means data which is recorded or stored on
any medium in or by a computer or other similar device,
that can be read or perceived by a person or a computer
system or other similar device and includes a display,
printout or other out put of that data;

“function” includes logic, control, arithmetic, deletion, storage,
retrieval and communication or telecommunication to,
from or within a computer;

“information” includes data, text, images, sounds, codes,
computer programs, software and databases;
5

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

“information system” means a system for generating, sending,
receiving, storing, displaying or otherwise processing data
messages; and includes the internet or any other
information sharing system;

“information system services” includes a provision of
connections, operation facilities, for information systems,
the provision of access to information systems, the
transmission or routing of data messages between or among
points specified by a user and the processing and storage of
data, at the individual request of the recipient of the service;
“intercept”, in relation to a function of a computer, includes
listening to or recording a function of a computer or acquiring
the substance, meaning or purport of such a function;
“Minister” means the Minister responsible for information and
communications technology;
“person” includes any company or association or body of
persons corporate or unincorporate;

“program” or “computer program” means data representing
instructions or statements that, when executed in a
computer, causes the computer to perform a function;

“traffic data” means any computer data relating to
communication by means of a computer system generated
by a computer system that formed a part in the chain of
communication, indicating the communication’s origin,
destination, route, time, date, size, duration or type of
underlying service.
PART II—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

3. Securing access.
A person secures access to any program or data held in a computer if
that person—
6

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

(a) views, alters or erases the program or data;

2011

(b) copies or moves it to any storage medium other than that in
which it is held or to a different location in the storage
medium in which it is held;
(c) uses or destroys it; or

(d) causes it to be output from the computer in which it is held
whether by having it displayed or in any other manner.

4. Using a program.
A person uses a program if the function he or she causes the computer
to perform—
(a) causes the program to be executed; or
(b) is itself a function of the program.

5. Authorised access.
Access by a person to any program or data held in a computer is
authorised if—

(a) the person is entitled to control access to the program or
data in question; or

6.

(b) the person has consent to access that program or data from
any person who is charged with giving that consent.

References.
(1) A reference to a program or data held in a computer includes
a reference to any program or data held in any removable storage
medium and a computer may be regarded as containing any program
or data held in any such medium.
(2) A reference to a program includes a reference to part of a
program.
7

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

7. Modification of contents.
A modification of the contents of any computer takes place if, by the
operation of any function of the computer concerned or any other
computer connected to it result into—

(a) a program, data or data message held in the computer
concerned being altered or erased; or
(b) a program, data or data message being added to its contents.

8. Unauthorised modification.
Modification is unauthorised if—

(a) the person whose act causes it, is not entitled to determine
whether the modification should be made; and

(b) he or she does not have consent to the modification from a
person who is entitled.
9.

PART III—INVESTIGATIONS AND PROCEDURES.

Preservation Order.
(1) An investigative officer may apply to court for an order for
the expeditious preservation of data that has been stored or processed
by means of a computer system or any other information and
communication technologies, where there are reasonable grounds to
believe that such data is vulnerable to loss or modification.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), data includes traffic data
and subscriber information.
(3) An order made under subsection (1) shall remain in force—

(a) until such time as may reasonably be required for the
investigation of an offence; or
(b) where prosecution is instituted, until the final determination
of the case or until such time as the court deems fit.
8

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

10. Disclosure of preservation Order.
The investigative officer may, for the purpose of a criminal
investigation or the prosecution of an offence, apply to court for an
order for the disclosure of—

(a) all preserved data, irrespective of whether one or more
service providers were involved in the transmission of such
data; or

(b) sufficient data to identify the service providers and the path
through which the data was transmitted; or electronic key
enabling access to or the interpretation of data.

11. Production Order.
(1) Where the disclosure of data is required for the purposes of
a criminal investigation or the prosecution of an offence, an
investigative officer may apply to court for an order compelling—
(a) any person to submit specified data in that person's possession
or control, which is stored in a computer system; and

(b) any service provider offering its services to submit
subscriber information in relation to such services in that
service provider's possession or control.

(2) Where any material to which an investigation relates consists
of data stored in a computer, computer system or preserved by any
mechanical or electronic device, the request shall be deemed to
require the person to produce or give access to it in a form in which
it can be taken away and in which it is visible and legible.
PART III—COMPUTER MISUSE OFFENCES.

12. Unauthorised access.
(1) A person who intentionally accesses or intercepts any program
or data without authority or permission to do so commits an offence.
9

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(2) A person who intentionally and without authority to do so,
interferes with data in a manner that causes the program or data to be
modified, damaged, destroyed or rendered ineffective, commits an offence.

(3) A person who unlawfully produces, sells, offers to sell,
procures for use, designs, adapts for use, distributes or possesses any
device, including a computer program or a component which is
designed primarily to overcome security measures for the protection
of data or performs any of those acts with regard to a password,
access code or any other similar kind of data, commits an offence.
(4) A person who utilises any device or computer program
specified in subsection (3) in order to unlawfully overcome security
measures designed to protect the program or data or access to that
program or data, commits an offence.

(5) A person who accesses any information system so as to
constitute a denial including a partial denial of service to legitimate
users commits an offence.
(6) The intent of a person to commit an offence under this
section need not be directed at—
(a) any particular program or data;

(b) a program or data of any particular kind; or

(c) a program or data held in any particular computer.

(7) A person who commits an offence under this section is liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and forty currency
points or imprisonment not exceeding ten years or both.
13. Access with intent to commit or facilitate the commission of
a further offence.
(1) A person who commits any acts specified under section 12
with intent to—
(a) commit any other offence; or
(b) facilitate the commission of any other offence,
commits an offence.

10

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(2) The offence to be facilitated under subsection (1)(b) may be
one committed by the person referred to in subsection (1) or by any
other person.

(3) It is immaterial for the purposes of this section whether the
act under this section is committed on the same occasion as the
offence under section 12 or on any future occasion.
(4) A person who commits an offence under this section is liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and forty currency
points or imprisonment not exceeding ten years or both.
14. Unauthorised modification of computer material.
(1) A person who—

(a) does any act which causes an unauthorised modification of
the contents of any computer; and
(b) has the requisite intent and the requisite knowledge at the
time when he or she does the act,

commits an offence.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) the requisite intent is an
intent to cause a modification of the contents of any computer and by
doing so—
(a) to impair the operation of any computer;

(b) to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in
any computer; or

(c) to impair the operation of any such program or the
reliability of any such data.
(3) The intent under subsection (1)(b) need not be directed at—
(a) any particular computer;

11

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(b) any particular program or data or a program or data of any
particular kind; or
(c) any particular modification or a modification of any
particular kind.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) the requisite knowledge
is knowledge that any modification that the person intends to cause is
unauthorised.
(5) It is immaterial for the purposes of this section whether an
unauthorised modification or any intended effect of it of a kind
specified in subsection (2) is intended to be permanent or temporary.

(6) A person who commits an offence under this section is liable
on conviction, to a fine not exceeding three hundred and sixty
currency points or imprisonment not exceeding fifteen years or both.
15. Unauthorised use or interception of computer service.
(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person who knowingly—

(a) secures access to any computer without authority for the
purpose of obtaining, directly or indirectly, any computer
service;
(b) intercepts or causes to be intercepted without authority,
directly or indirectly, any function of a computer by means
of an electro-magnetic, acoustic, mechanical or other
device whether similar or not; or

(c) uses or causes to be used, directly or indirectly, the
computer or any other device for the purpose of committing
an offence under paragraph (a) or (b),

commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
two hundred and forty currency points or to imprisonment not
exceeding ten years or both; and in the case of a subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding three hundred and sixty currency
points or imprisonment not exceeding fifteen years or both.
12

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(2) If any damage is caused as a result of an offence under this
section, a person convicted of the offence is liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred and sixty eight currency points or
imprisonment not exceeding seven years or both.

(3) For the purposes of this section, it is immaterial that the
unauthorised access or interception is not directed at—
(a) any particular program or data;

(b) a program or data of any kind; or

(c) a program or data held in any particular computer.

16. Unauthorised obstruction of use of computer.
A person who, knowingly and without authority or lawful excuse—

(a) interferes with or interrupts or obstructs the lawful use of, a
computer; or

(b) impedes or prevents access to or impairs the usefulness or
effectiveness of any program or data stored in a computer,

commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
two hundred and forty currency points or to imprisonment not
exceeding ten years or both; and in the case of a subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding three hundred and sixty currency
points or imprisonment not exceeding fifteen years or both.

17. Unauthorised disclosure of access code.
(1) A person who knowingly and without authority discloses any
password, access code or any other means of gaining access to any
program or data held in any computer knowing or having reason to
believe that it is likely to cause loss, damage or injury to any person
or property, commits an offence.
13

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and forty currency
points or to imprisonment not exceeding ten years or both; and in the case
of a subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding three hundred and sixty
currency points or imprisonment not exceeding fifteen years or both.
18. Unauthorised disclosure of information.
(1) Except for the purposes of this Act or for any prosecution for
an offence under any written law or in accordance with an order of
court, a person who has access to any electronic data, record, book,
register, correspondence, information, document or any other
material, shall not disclose to any other person or use for any other
purpose other than that for which he or she obtained access.

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two hundred and forty
currency points or imprisonment not exceeding ten years or both.

19. Electronic fraud.
(1) A person who carries out electronic fraud commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding three
hundred and sixty currency points or imprisonment not exceeding
fifteen years or both.
(2) For the purposes of this section “electronic fraud” means
deception, deliberately performed with the intention of securing an
unfair or unlawful gain where part of a communication is sent
through a computer network or any other communication and another
part through the action of the victim of the offence or the action is
performed through a computer network or both.
20. Enhanced punishment for offences involving protected
computers.
(1) Where access to any protected computer is obtained in the
course of the commission of an offence under section 12, 14, 15 or
16, the person convicted of an offence is, instead of the punishment
prescribed in those sections, liable on conviction, to imprisonment for
life.
14

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a computer is treated as a
“protected computer” if the person committing the offence knows or
ought reasonably to have known, that the computer or program or
data is used directly in connection with or necessary for—
(a) the security, defence or international relations of Uganda;

(b) the existence or identity of a confidential source of
information relating to the enforcement of a criminal law;
(c) the provision of services directly related to communications
infrastructure, banking and financial services, public
utilities or public key infrastructure; or

(d) the protection of public safety including systems related to
essential emergency services such as police, civil defence
and medical services.

(3) For the purposes of any prosecution under this section, it shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the accused has the requisite
knowledge referred to in subsection (2).

21. Abetment and attempts.
(1) A person who abets another person in committing an offence
under this Act, commits that offence and is liable on conviction to the
punishment prescribed for the offence.
(2) Any person who attempts to commit any offence under this
Act commits that offence and is liable on conviction to the
punishment prescribed for the offence.

22. Attempt defined.
(1) When a person, intending to commit an offence, begins to put
his or her intention into execution by means adapted to its fulfillment,
and manifests his or her intention by some overt act, but does not
fulfill his or her intention to such an extent as to commit the offence,
he or she is deemed to attempt to commit the offence.
15

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

(2) It is immaterial—

2011

(a) except so far as regards punishment, whether the offender
does all that is necessary on his or her part for completing
the commission of the offence, or whether the complete
fulfillment of his or her intention is prevented by
circumstances independent of his or her will, or whether the
offender desists of his or her own motion from the further
prosecution of his or her intention; or

(b) that by reason of circumstances not known to the offender it
is impossible in fact to commit the offence.

23. Child pornography.
(1) A person who—

(a) produces child pornography for the purposes of its
distribution through a computer;
(b) offers or makes available child pornography through a
computer;

(c) distributes or transmits child pornography through a
computer;
(d) procures child pornography through a computer for himself
or herself or another person; or
(e) unlawfully possesses child pornography on a computer,

commits an offence.

(2) A person who makes available pornographic materials to a
child commits an offence.
(3) For the purposes of this section “child pornography” includes
pornographic material that depicts—
(a) a child engaged in sexually suggestive or explicit conduct;

(b) a person appearing to be a child engaged in sexually
suggestive or explicit conduct; or
16

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(c) realistic images representing children engaged in sexually
suggestive or explicit conduct.

(4) A person who commits an offence under this section is liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding three hundred and sixty
currency points or imprisonment not exceeding fifteen years or both.
24. Cyber harassment.
(1) A person who commits cyber harassment is liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding seventy two currency points or
imprisonment not exceeding three years or both.
(2) For purposes of this section cyber harassment is the use of a
computer for any of the following purposes—
(a) making any request, suggestion or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious or indecent;

(b) threatening to inflict injury or physical harm to the person
or property of any person; or

(c) knowingly permits any electronic communications device
to be used for any of the purposes mentioned in this section.

25. Offensive communication.
Any person who willfully and repeatedly uses electronic
communication to disturb or attempts to disturb the peace, quiet or right
of privacy of any person with no purpose of legitimate communication
whether or not a conversation ensues commits a misdemeanor and is
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty four currency points
or imprisonment not exceeding one year or both.

26. Cyber stalking.
Any person who willfully, maliciously, and repeatedly uses electronic
communication to harass another person and makes a threat with the
intent to place that person in reasonable fear for his or her safety or to
a member of that person's immediate family commits the crime of
cyber stalking and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one
hundred and twenty currency points or imprisonment not exceeding
five years or both.
17

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

27. Compensation.
Where a person is convicted under this Act, the court shall in addition
to the punishment provided therein, order such person to pay by way
of compensation to the aggrieved party, such sum as is in the opinion
of the court just, having regard to the loss suffered by the aggrieved
party; and such order shall be a decree under the provisions of the
Civil Procedure Act, and shall be executed in the manner provided
under that Act.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS.

28. Searches and seizure.
(1) Where a Magistrate is satisfied by information given by a
police officer that there are reasonable grounds for believing—
(a) that an offence under this Act has been or is about to be
committed in any premises; and

(b) that evidence that such an offence has been or is about to be
committed is in those premises,

the Magistrate may issue a warrant authorising a police officer to enter
and search the premises, using such reasonable force as is necessary.

(2) An authorised officer may seize any computer system or take
any samples or copies of applications or data—

(a) that is concerned in or is on reasonable grounds believed to
be concerned in the commission or suspected commission
of an offence, whether within Uganda or elsewhere;

(b) that may afford evidence of the commission or suspected
commission of an offence, whether within Uganda or
elsewhere; or
(c) that is intended to be used or is on reasonable grounds believed
to be intended to be used in the commission of an offence.

(3) A computer system referred to in subsection (2) may be
seized or samples or copies of applications or data may be taken, only
by virtue of a search warrant.
18

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(4) The provisions of section 71 of the Magistrates Court’s Act
apply with the necessary modifications to the issue and execution of
a search warrant referred to in subsection (3).
(5) An authorised officer executing a search warrant referred to
in subsection (3), may—
(a) at any time search for, have access to and inspect and check the
operation of any computer system, application or data if that
officer on reasonable grounds believes it to be necessary to
facilitate the execution of that search warrant;

(b) require a person having charge of or being otherwise
concerned with the operation, custody or care of a
computer system, application or data to provide him or her
with the reasonable assistance that may be required to
facilitate the execution of that search warrant; and
(c) compel a service provider, within its existing technical
capability—
(i)

to collect or record through the application of
technical means; or

(ii) to co-operate and assist the competent authorties in the
collection or recording of traffic data in real time,
associated with specified communication transmitted
by means of a computer system.

(6) In seizing any computer system or taking any samples or
copies of applications or data or performing any of the actions
referred to in subsection (5), an authorised officer shall have due
regard to the rights and interests of a person affected by the seizure to
carry on his or her normal activities.

(7) A person who obstructs, hinders or threatens an authorised
officer in the performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his or
her powers under this section commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding twelve currency points or
imprisonment not exceeding six months or both.
19

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(8) A computer system seized or samples or copies of applications
or data taken by the authorised officer shall be returned within seventy
two hours unless the authorised officer has applied for and obtained an
order in an inter party application for extension of the time.
(9) In this section—

“authorised officer” means a police officer who has obtained an
authorising warrant under subsection (1); and

“premises” includes land, buildings, movable structures,
vehicles, vessels, aircraft and hover craft.

29. Admissibility and evidential weight of a data message or an
electronic record.
(1) In any legal proceedings, the rules of evidence shall not be
applied so as to deny the admissibility of a data message or an
electronic record—

(a) merely on the ground that it is constituted by a data
message or an electronic record;
(b) if it is the best evidence that the person adducing it could
reasonably be expected to obtain; or
(c) merely on the ground that it is not in its original form.

(2) A person seeking to introduce a data message or an
electronic record in any legal proceeding has the burden of proving
its authenticity by evidence capable of supporting a finding that the
electronic record is what the person claims it to be.
(3) Subject to subsection (2), where the best evidence rule is
applicable in respect of an electronic record, the rule is satisfied upon
proof of the authenticity of the electronic records system in or by
which the data was recorded or stored.
(4) When assessing the evidential weight of a data message or an
electronic record, the court shall have regard to—
20

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(a) the reliability of the manner in which the data message was
generated, stored or communicated;

(b) the reliability of the manner in which the authenticity of the
data message was maintained;
(c) the manner in which the originator of the data message or
electronic record was identified; and
(d) any other relevant factor.

(5) The authenticity of the electronic records system in which an
electronic record is recorded or stored shall, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary, be presumed where—

(a) there is evidence that supports a finding that at all material
times the computer system or other similar device was
operating properly or, if it was not, the fact of its not operating
properly did not affect the integrity of the electronic record
and there are no other reasonable grounds on which to doubt
the authenticity of the electronic records system;

(b) it is established that the electronic record was recorded or
stored by a party to the proceedings who is adverse in
interest to the party seeking to introduce it; or
(c) it is established that the electronic record was recorded or
stored in the usual and ordinary course of business by a
person who is not a party to the proceedings and who did
not record or store it under the control of the party seeking
to introduce the record.

(6) For the purposes of determining whether an electronic record
is admissible under this section, evidence may be presented in respect
of any set standard, procedure, usage or practice on how electronic
records are to be recorded or stored, with regard to the type of
business or endeavours that used, recorded or stored the electronic
record and the nature and purpose of the electronic record.
21

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act

2011

(7) For the avoidance of doubt, this section does not modify the
common law or a statutory rule relating to the admissibility of
records, except the rules relating to authentication and best evidence.
30. Territorial jurisdiction.
(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act shall have effect, in
relation to any person, whatever his or her nationality or citizenship
and whether he or she is within or outside Uganda.
(2) Where an offence under this Act, is committed by any person
in any place outside Uganda, he or she may be dealt with as if the
offence had been committed within Uganda.
(3) For the purposes of this Act, this section applies if, for the
offence in question—
(a) the accused was in Uganda at the material time; or

(b) the computer, program or data was in Uganda at the
material time.

31. Jurisdiction of courts.
A court presided over by a chief magistrate or magistrate grade I has
jurisdiction to hear and determine all offences in this Act and,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, has
power to impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any
offence under this Act.

32. Power of Minister to amend Schedule
The Minister may by statutory instrument with the approval of the
Cabinet, amend the Schedule to this Act.

22

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act
SCHEDULE

Currency point

2011
Section 2.

One currency point is equivalent to twenty thousand shillings.

23

Act 2

Computer Misuse Act
Cross reference

Magistrates Courts Act, Cap.16.

24

2011

