15 USC CHAPTER 41, SUBCHAPTER III: CREDIT REPORTING AGENCIES
From Title 15—COMMERCE AND TRADE
CHAPTER 41—CONSUMER CREDIT PROTECTION

SUBCHAPTER III—CREDIT REPORTING AGENCIES
§1681. Congressional findings and statement of purpose
(a) Accuracy and fairness of credit reporting
The Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The banking system is dependent upon fair and accurate credit reporting. Inaccurate
credit reports directly impair the efficiency of the banking system, and unfair credit reporting
methods undermine the public confidence which is essential to the continued functioning of the
banking system.
(2) An elaborate mechanism has been developed for investigating and evaluating the credit
worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, and general reputation of consumers.
(3) Consumer reporting agencies have assumed a vital role in assembling and evaluating
consumer credit and other information on consumers.
(4) There is a need to insure that consumer reporting agencies exercise their grave
responsibilities with fairness, impartiality, and a respect for the consumer's right to privacy.
(b) Reasonable procedures
It is the purpose of this subchapter to require that consumer reporting agencies adopt
reasonable procedures for meeting the needs of commerce for consumer credit, personnel,
insurance, and other information in a manner which is fair and equitable to the consumer, with
regard to the confidentiality, accuracy, relevancy, and proper utilization of such information in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §602, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1128.)
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Pub. L. 108–159, §3, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1953, provided that: "Except as otherwise
specifically provided in this Act [see Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set out under section
1601 of this title] and the amendments made by this Act—
"(1) before the end of the 2-month period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act
[Dec. 4, 2003], the Board and the Commission shall jointly prescribe regulations in final form
establishing effective dates for each provision of this Act; and
"(2) the regulations prescribed under paragraph (1) shall establish effective dates that are
as early as possible, while allowing a reasonable time for the implementation of the provisions

of this Act, but in no case shall any such effective date be later than 10 months after the date
of issuance of such regulations in final form."
[For final rules adopted by Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and Federal
Trade Commission establishing effective dates for provisions of Pub. L. 108–159, see 68 F.R.
74467 (joint interim final rules) and 69 F.R. 6526 (joint final rules).]
Effective Date
Pub. L. 90–321, title V, §504(d), as added by Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §602, Oct. 26, 1970, 84
Stat. 1136, provided that: "Title VI [enacting this subchapter] takes effect upon the expiration of
one hundred and eighty days following the date of its enactment [Oct. 26, 1970]."
Short Title
This subchapter known as the "Fair Credit Reporting Act", see Short Title note set out under
section 1601 of this title.
Study of Effects of Credit Scores and Credit-Based Insurance Scores on Availability and
Affordability of Financial Products
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §215, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1984, provided that:
"(a) Study Required.—The Commission and the Board, in consultation with the Office of Fair
Housing and Equal Opportunity of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall
conduct a study of—
"(1) the effects of the use of credit scores and credit-based insurance scores on the
availability and affordability of financial products and services, including credit cards,
mortgages, auto loans, and property and casualty insurance;
"(2) the statistical relationship, utilizing a multivariate analysis that controls for prohibited
factors under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act [15 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.] and other known risk
factors, between credit scores and credit-based insurance scores and the quantifiable risks
and actual losses experienced by businesses;
"(3) the extent to which, if any, the use of credit scoring models, credit scores, and
credit-based insurance scores impact on the availability and affordability of credit and
insurance to the extent information is currently available or is available through proxies, by
geography, income, ethnicity, race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, and
creed, including the extent to which the consideration or lack of consideration of certain
factors by credit scoring systems could result in negative or differential treatment of protected
classes under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and the extent to which, if any, the use of
underwriting systems relying on these models could achieve comparable results through the
use of factors with less negative impact; and
"(4) the extent to which credit scoring systems are used by businesses, the factors
considered by such systems, and the effects of variables which are not considered by such
systems.

"(b) Public Participation.—The Commission shall seek public input about the prescribed
methodology and research design of the study described in subsection (a), including from
relevant Federal regulators, State insurance regulators, community, civil rights, consumer, and
housing groups.
"(c) Report Required.—
"(1) In general.—Before the end of the 24-month period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003], the Commission shall submit a detailed report on the
study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) to the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate.
"(2) Contents of report.—The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the
findings and conclusions of the Commission, recommendations to address specific areas of
concerns addressed in the study, and recommendations for legislative or administrative action
that the Commission may determine to be necessary to ensure that credit and credit-based
insurance scores are used appropriately and fairly to avoid negative effects."
FTC Study of Issues Relating to the Fair Credit Reporting Act
Pub. L. 108–159, title III, §318, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1998, provided that:
"(a) Study Required.—
"(1) In general.—The Commission shall conduct a study on ways to improve the
operation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.].
"(2) Areas for study.—In conducting the study under paragraph (1), the Commission shall
review—
"(A) the efficacy of increasing the number of points of identifying information that a
credit reporting agency is required to match to ensure that a consumer is the correct
individual to whom a consumer report relates before releasing a consumer report to a user,
including—
"(i) the extent to which requiring additional points of such identifying information
to match would—
"(I) enhance the accuracy of credit reports; and
"(II) combat the provision of incorrect consumer reports to users;
"(ii) the extent to which requiring an exact match of the first and last name,
social security number, and address and ZIP Code of the consumer would enhance the
likelihood of increasing credit report accuracy; and
"(iii) the effects of allowing consumer reporting agencies to use partial matches
of social security numbers and name recognition software on the accuracy of credit
reports;
"(B) requiring notification to consumers when negative information has been added
to their credit reports, including—
"(i) the potential impact of such notification on the ability of consumers to identify
errors on their credit reports; and

"(ii) the potential impact of such notification on the ability of consumers to
remove fraudulent information from their credit reports;
"(C) the effects of requiring that a consumer who has experienced an adverse action
based on a credit report receives a copy of the same credit report that the creditor relied on
in taking the adverse action, including—
"(i) the extent to which providing such reports to consumers would increase the
ability of consumers to identify errors in their credit reports; and
"(ii) the extent to which providing such reports to consumers would increase the
ability of consumers to remove fraudulent information from their credit reports;
"(D) any common financial transactions that are not generally reported to the
consumer reporting agencies, but would provide useful information in determining the credit
worthiness of consumers; and
"(E) any actions that might be taken within a voluntary reporting system to
encourage the reporting of the types of transactions described in subparagraph (D).
"(3) Costs and benefits.—With respect to each area of study described in paragraph (2),
the Commission shall consider the extent to which such requirements would benefit
consumers, balanced against the cost of implementing such provisions.
"(b) Report Required.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4,
2003], the chairman of the Commission shall submit a report to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives containing a detailed summary of the findings and conclusions of the
study under this section, together with such recommendations for legislative or administrative
actions as may be appropriate."
FTC Study of the Accuracy of Consumer Reports
Pub. L. 108–159, title III, §319, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1999, provided that:
"(a) Study Required.—Until the final report is submitted under subsection (b)(2), the
Commission shall conduct an ongoing study of the accuracy and completeness of information
contained in consumer reports prepared or maintained by consumer reporting agencies and
methods for improving the accuracy and completeness of such information.
"(b) Biennial Reports Required.—
"(1) Interim reports.—The Commission shall submit an interim report to the Congress on
the study conducted under subsection (a) at the end of the 1-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003] and biennially thereafter for 8 years.
"(2) Final report.—The Commission shall submit a final report to the Congress on the
study conducted under subsection (a) at the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date
on which the final interim report is submitted to the Congress under paragraph (1).
"(3) Contents.—Each report submitted under this subsection shall contain a detailed
summary of the findings and conclusions of the Commission with respect to the study
required under subsection (a) and such recommendations for legislative and administrative
action as the Commission may determine to be appropriate."

Definitions
Pub. L. 108–159, §2, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1953, provided that: "As used in this Act [see
Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set out under section 1601 of this title]—
"(1) the term 'Board' means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
"(2) the term 'Commission', other than as used in title V [20 U.S.C. 9701 et seq.], means
the Federal Trade Commission;
"(3) the terms 'consumer', 'consumer report', 'consumer reporting agency', 'creditor',
'Federal banking agencies', and 'financial institution' have the same meanings as in section
603 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681a], as amended by this Act; and
"(4) the term 'affiliates' means persons that are related by common ownership or affiliated
by corporate control."

§1681a. Definitions; rules of construction
(a) Definitions and rules of construction set forth in this section are applicable for the
purposes of this subchapter.
(b) The term "person" means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate,
cooperative, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity.
(c) The term "consumer" means an individual.
(d) Consumer Report.—
(1) In general.—The term "consumer report" means any written, oral, or other
communication of any information by a consumer reporting agency bearing on a consumer's
credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal
characteristics, or mode of living which is used or expected to be used or collected in whole or
in part for the purpose of serving as a factor in establishing the consumer's eligibility for—
(A) credit or insurance to be used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes;
(B) employment purposes; or
(C) any other purpose authorized under section 1681b of this title.
(2) Exclusions.—Except as provided in paragraph (3), the term "consumer report" does not
include—
(A) subject to section 1681s–3 of this title, any—
(i) report containing information solely as to transactions or experiences between the
consumer and the person making the report;
(ii) communication of that information among persons related by common ownership or
affiliated by corporate control; or
(iii) communication of other information among persons related by common ownership
or affiliated by corporate control, if it is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the
consumer that the information may be communicated among such persons and the
consumer is given the opportunity, before the time that the information is initially
communicated, to direct that such information not be communicated among such
persons;

(B) any authorization or approval of a specific extension of credit directly or indirectly by
the issuer of a credit card or similar device;
(C) any report in which a person who has been requested by a third party to make a
specific extension of credit directly or indirectly to a consumer conveys his or her decision
with respect to such request, if the third party advises the consumer of the name and
address of the person to whom the request was made, and such person makes the
disclosures to the consumer required under section 1681m of this title; or
(D) a communication described in subsection (o) or (x).1
(3) Restriction on sharing of medical information.—Except for information or any
communication of information disclosed as provided in section 1681b(g)(3) of this title, the
exclusions in paragraph (2) shall not apply with respect to information disclosed to any person
related by common ownership or affiliated by corporate control, if the information is—
(A) medical information;
(B) an individualized list or description based on the payment transactions of the
consumer for medical products or services; or
(C) an aggregate list of identified consumers based on payment transactions for medical
products or services.
(e) The term "investigative consumer report" means a consumer report or portion thereof in
which information on a consumer's character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or
mode of living is obtained through personal interviews with neighbors, friends, or associates of
the consumer reported on or with others with whom he is acquainted or who may have
knowledge concerning any such items of information. However, such information shall not
include specific factual information on a consumer's credit record obtained directly from a
creditor of the consumer or from a consumer reporting agency when such information was
obtained directly from a creditor of the consumer or from the consumer.
(f) The term "consumer reporting agency" means any person which, for monetary fees, dues,
or on a cooperative nonprofit basis, regularly engages in whole or in part in the practice of
assembling or evaluating consumer credit information or other information on consumers for the
purpose of furnishing consumer reports to third parties, and which uses any means or facility of
interstate commerce for the purpose of preparing or furnishing consumer reports.
(g) The term "file", when used in connection with information on any consumer, means all of
the information on that consumer recorded and retained by a consumer reporting agency
regardless of how the information is stored.
(h) The term "employment purposes" when used in connection with a consumer report means
a report used for the purpose of evaluating a consumer for employment, promotion,
reassignment or retention as an employee.
(i) Medical Information.—The term "medical information"—
(1) means information or data, whether oral or recorded, in any form or medium, created by
or derived from a health care provider or the consumer, that relates to—
(A) the past, present, or future physical, mental, or behavioral health or condition of an
individual;

(B) the provision of health care to an individual; or
(C) the payment for the provision of health care to an individual.2
(2) does not include the age or gender of a consumer, demographic information about the
consumer, including a consumer's residence address or e-mail address, or any other
information about a consumer that does not relate to the physical, mental, or behavioral
health or condition of a consumer, including the existence or value of any insurance policy.
(j) Definitions Relating to Child Support Obligations.—
(1) Overdue support.—The term "overdue support" has the meaning given to such term in
section 666(e) of title 42.
(2) State or local child support enforcement agency.—The term "State or local child support
enforcement agency" means a State or local agency which administers a State or local
program for establishing and enforcing child support obligations.
(k) Adverse Action.—
(1) Actions included.—The term "adverse action"—
(A) has the same meaning as in section 1691(d)(6) of this title; and
(B) means—
(i) a denial or cancellation of, an increase in any charge for, or a reduction or other
adverse or unfavorable change in the terms of coverage or amount of, any insurance,
existing or applied for, in connection with the underwriting of insurance;
(ii) a denial of employment or any other decision for employment purposes that
adversely affects any current or prospective employee;
(iii) a denial or cancellation of, an increase in any charge for, or any other adverse or
unfavorable change in the terms of, any license or benefit described in section
1681b(a)(3)(D) of this title; and
(iv) an action taken or determination that is—
(I) made in connection with an application that was made by, or a transaction that
was initiated by, any consumer, or in connection with a review of an account under
section 1681b(a)(3)(F)(ii) of this title; and
(II) adverse to the interests of the consumer.
(2) Applicable findings, decisions, commentary, and orders.—For purposes of any
determination of whether an action is an adverse action under paragraph (1)(A), all
appropriate final findings, decisions, commentary, and orders issued under section 1691(d)(6)
of this title by the Bureau or any court shall apply.
(l) Firm Offer of Credit or Insurance.—The term "firm offer of credit or insurance" means any
offer of credit or insurance to a consumer that will be honored if the consumer is determined,
based on information in a consumer report on the consumer, to meet the specific criteria used to
select the consumer for the offer, except that the offer may be further conditioned on one or
more of the following:

(1) The consumer being determined, based on information in the consumer's application for
the credit or insurance, to meet specific criteria bearing on credit worthiness or insurability, as
applicable, that are established—
(A) before selection of the consumer for the offer; and
(B) for the purpose of determining whether to extend credit or insurance pursuant to the
offer.
(2) Verification—
(A) that the consumer continues to meet the specific criteria used to select the consumer
for the offer, by using information in a consumer report on the consumer, information in the
consumer's application for the credit or insurance, or other information bearing on the credit
worthiness or insurability of the consumer; or
(B) of the information in the consumer's application for the credit or insurance, to
determine that the consumer meets the specific criteria bearing on credit worthiness or
insurability.
(3) The consumer furnishing any collateral that is a requirement for the extension of the
credit or insurance that was—
(A) established before selection of the consumer for the offer of credit or insurance; and
(B) disclosed to the consumer in the offer of credit or insurance.
(m) Credit or Insurance Transaction That Is Not Initiated by the Consumer.—The term "credit
or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer" does not include the use of a
consumer report by a person with which the consumer has an account or insurance policy, for
purposes of—
(1) reviewing the account or insurance policy; or
(2) collecting the account.
(n) State.—The term "State" means any State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District
of Columbia, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(o) Excluded Communications.—A communication is described in this subsection if it is a
communication—
(1) that, but for subsection (d)(2)(D), would be an investigative consumer report;
(2) that is made to a prospective employer for the purpose of—
(A) procuring an employee for the employer; or
(B) procuring an opportunity for a natural person to work for the employer;
(3) that is made by a person who regularly performs such procurement;
(4) that is not used by any person for any purpose other than a purpose described in
subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2); and
(5) with respect to which—
(A) the consumer who is the subject of the communication—
(i) consents orally or in writing to the nature and scope of the communication, before
the collection of any information for the purpose of making the communication;

(ii) consents orally or in writing to the making of the communication to a prospective
employer, before the making of the communication; and
(iii) in the case of consent under clause (i) or (ii) given orally, is provided written
confirmation of that consent by the person making the communication, not later than 3
business days after the receipt of the consent by that person;
(B) the person who makes the communication does not, for the purpose of making the
communication, make any inquiry that if made by a prospective employer of the consumer
who is the subject of the communication would violate any applicable Federal or State
equal employment opportunity law or regulation; and
(C) the person who makes the communication—
(i) discloses in writing to the consumer who is the subject of the communication, not
later than 5 business days after receiving any request from the consumer for such
disclosure, the nature and substance of all information in the consumer's file at the time
of the request, except that the sources of any information that is acquired solely for use in
making the communication and is actually used for no other purpose, need not be
disclosed other than under appropriate discovery procedures in any court of competent
jurisdiction in which an action is brought; and
(ii) notifies the consumer who is the subject of the communication, in writing, of the
consumer's right to request the information described in clause (i).
(p) Consumer Reporting Agency That Compiles and Maintains Files on Consumers on a
Nationwide Basis.—The term "consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on
consumers on a nationwide basis" means a consumer reporting agency that regularly engages
in the practice of assembling or evaluating, and maintaining, for the purpose of furnishing
consumer reports to third parties bearing on a consumer's credit worthiness, credit standing, or
credit capacity, each of the following regarding consumers residing nationwide:
(1) Public record information.
(2) Credit account information from persons who furnish that information regularly and in
the ordinary course of business.
(q) Definitions Relating to Fraud Alerts.—
(1) Active duty military consumer.—The term "active duty military consumer" means a
consumer in military service who—
(A) is on active duty (as defined in section 101(d)(1) of title 10) or is a reservist
performing duty under a call or order to active duty under a provision of law referred to in
section 101(a)(13) of title 10; and
(B) is assigned to service away from the usual duty station of the consumer.
(2) Fraud alert; active duty alert.—The terms "fraud alert" and "active duty alert" mean a
statement in the file of a consumer that—
(A) notifies all prospective users of a consumer report relating to the consumer that the
consumer may be a victim of fraud, including identity theft, or is an active duty military
consumer, as applicable; and

(B) is presented in a manner that facilitates a clear and conspicuous view of the
statement described in subparagraph (A) by any person requesting such consumer report.
(3) Identity theft.—The term "identity theft" means a fraud committed using the identifying
information of another person, subject to such further definition as the Bureau may prescribe,
by regulation.
(4) Identity theft report.—The term "identity theft report" has the meaning given that term by
rule of the Bureau, and means, at a minimum, a report—
(A) that alleges an identity theft;
(B) that is a copy of an official, valid report filed by a consumer with an appropriate
Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, including the United States Postal
Inspection Service, or such other government agency deemed appropriate by the Bureau;
and
(C) the filing of which subjects the person filing the report to criminal penalties relating to
the filing of false information if, in fact, the information in the report is false.
(5) New credit plan.—The term "new credit plan" means a new account under an open end
credit plan (as defined in section 1602(i) 1 of this title) or a new credit transaction not under an
open end credit plan.
(r) Credit and Debit Related Terms—
(1) Card issuer.—The term "card issuer" means—
(A) a credit card issuer, in the case of a credit card; and
(B) a debit card issuer, in the case of a debit card.
(2) Credit card.—The term "credit card" has the same meaning as in section 1602 of this
title.
(3) Debit card.—The term "debit card" means any card issued by a financial institution to a
consumer for use in initiating an electronic fund transfer from the account of the consumer at
such financial institution, for the purpose of transferring money between accounts or obtaining
money, property, labor, or services.
(4) Account and electronic fund transfer.—The terms "account" and "electronic fund
transfer" have the same meanings as in section 1693a of this title.
(5) Credit and creditor.—The terms "credit" and "creditor" have the same meanings as in
section 1691a of this title.
(s) Federal Banking Agency.—The term "Federal banking agency" has the same meaning as
in section 1813 of title 12.
(t) Financial Institution.—The term "financial institution" means a State or National bank, a
State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal credit
union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds a transaction account (as defined in
section 461(b) of title 12) belonging to a consumer.
(u) Reseller.—The term "reseller" means a consumer reporting agency that—

(1) assembles and merges information contained in the database of another consumer
reporting agency or multiple consumer reporting agencies concerning any consumer for
purposes of furnishing such information to any third party, to the extent of such activities; and
(2) does not maintain a database of the assembled or merged information from which new
consumer reports are produced.
(v) Commission.—The term "Commission" means the Bureau.3
(w) The term "Bureau" means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
(x) Nationwide Specialty Consumer Reporting Agency.—The term "nationwide specialty
consumer reporting agency" means a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains
files on consumers on a nationwide basis relating to—
(1) medical records or payments;
(2) residential or tenant history;
(3) check writing history;
(4) employment history; or
(5) insurance claims.
(y) Exclusion of Certain Communications for Employee Investigations.—
(1) Communications described in this subsection.—A communication is described in this
subsection if—
(A) but for subsection (d)(2)(D), the communication would be a consumer report;
(B) the communication is made to an employer in connection with an investigation of—
(i) suspected misconduct relating to employment; or
(ii) compliance with Federal, State, or local laws and regulations, the rules of a
self-regulatory organization, or any preexisting written policies of the employer;
(C) the communication is not made for the purpose of investigating a consumer's credit
worthiness, credit standing, or credit capacity; and
(D) the communication is not provided to any person except—
(i) to the employer or an agent of the employer;
(ii) to any Federal or State officer, agency, or department, or any officer, agency, or
department of a unit of general local government;
(iii) to any self-regulatory organization with regulatory authority over the activities of the
employer or employee;
(iv) as otherwise required by law; or
(v) pursuant to section 1681f of this title.
(2) Subsequent disclosure.—After taking any adverse action based in whole or in part on a
communication described in paragraph (1), the employer shall disclose to the consumer a
summary containing the nature and substance of the communication upon which the adverse
action is based, except that the sources of information acquired solely for use in preparing
what would be but for subsection (d)(2)(D) an investigative consumer report need not be
disclosed.

(3) Self-regulatory organization defined.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
"self-regulatory organization" includes any self-regulatory organization (as defined in section
78c(a)(26) of this title), any entity established under title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
[15 U.S.C. 7211 et seq.], any board of trade designated by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and any futures association registered with such Commission.
(z) Veteran.—The term "veteran" has the meaning given the term in section 101 of title 38.
(aa) Veteran's Medical Debt.—The term "veteran's medical debt"—
(1) means a medical collection debt of a veteran owed to a non-Department of Veterans
Affairs health care provider that was submitted to the Department for payment for health care
authorized by the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
(2) includes medical collection debt that the Department of Veterans Affairs has wrongfully
charged a veteran.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §603, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1128; amended Pub. L. 102–537, §2(b), Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3531; Pub. L. 104–208, div. A,
title II, §2402, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–426; Pub. L. 105–347, §6(1)–(3), Nov. 2, 1998,
112 Stat. 3211; Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §111, title II, §214(c)(1), title IV, §411(b), (c), title VI,
§611, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1954, 1983, 2001, 2010; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(1),
(2)(A), (C), (3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2086, 2087; Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §302(b)(1), May
24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1333.)
References in Text
Subsection (x) of this section, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(D), was redesignated subsection
(y) of this section by Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2086.
Section 1602(i) of this title, referred to in subsec. (q)(5), was redesignated section 1602(j) of
this title by Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1100A(1)(A), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2107.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (y)(3), is Pub. L. 107–204, July 30,
2002, 116 Stat. 745. Title I of the Act is classified principally to subchapter I (§7211 et seq.) of
chapter 98 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note
set out under section 7201 of this title and Tables.
Amendments
2018—Subsecs. (z), (aa). Pub. L. 115–174 added subsecs. (z) and (aa).
2010—Subsec. (k)(2). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(3), substituted "Bureau" for "Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System".
Subsec. (q)(3), (4). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "the Bureau" for "the
Commission" wherever appearing.
Subsec. (v). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(A), substituted "Bureau" for "Federal Trade
Commission".
Subsecs. (w) to (y). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(1), added subsec. (w) and redesignated
former subsecs. (w) and (x) as (x) and (y), respectively.

2003—Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 108–159, §411(b)(1), substituted "Except as provided in
paragraph (3), the term" for "The term" in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (d)(2)(A). Pub. L. 108–159, §214(c)(1), inserted "subject to section 1681s–3 of this
title," after "(A)" in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (d)(2)(D). Pub. L. 108–159, §611(b), inserted "or (x)" after "subsection (o)".
Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 108–159, §411(b)(2), added par. (3).
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 108–159, §411(c), inserted heading and amended text of subsec. (i)
generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The term 'medical information' means
information or records obtained, with the consent of the individual to whom it relates, from
licensed physicians or medical practitioners, hospitals, clinics, or other medical or medically
related facilities."
Subsecs. (q) to (w). Pub. L. 108–159, §111, added subsecs. (q) to (w).
Subsec. (x). Pub. L. 108–159, §611(a), added subsec. (x).
1998—Subsec. (d)(2)(A)(iii). Pub. L. 105–347, §6(1), struck out "any" before "communication
of other".
Subsec. (o)(1). Pub. L. 105–347, §6(2), substituted "(d)(2)(D)" for "(d)(2)(E)".
Subsec. (o)(4). Pub. L. 105–347, §6(3), substituted "and" for "or" at end.
1996—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(e), inserted subsec. heading, designated
existing provisions as par. (1) and inserted heading, redesignated cls. (1) to (3) as subpars. (A)
to (C), respectively, added par. (2), and struck out at end "The term does not include (A) any
report containing information solely as to transactions or experiences between the consumer
and the person making the report; (B) any authorization or approval of a specific extension of
credit directly or indirectly by the issuer of a credit card or similar device; or (C) any report in
which a person who has been requested by a third party to make a specific extension of credit
directly or indirectly to a consumer conveys his decision with respect to such request, if the third
party advises the consumer of the name and address of the person to whom the request was
made and such person makes the disclosures to the consumer required under section 1681m of
this title."
Subsec. (k). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(a), added subsec. (k).
Subsec. (l). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(b), added subsec. (l).
Subsec. (m). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(c), added subsec. (m).
Subsec. (n). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(d), added subsec. (n).
Subsec. (o). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(f), added subsec. (o).
Subsec. (p). Pub. L. 104–208, §2402(g), added subsec. (p).
1992—Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 102–537 added subsec. (j).

Effective Date of 2018 Amendment
Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §302(e), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1335, provided that: "The
amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 1681c, 1681c–1, 1681i,
and 1681t of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under section 1681c of this title]
shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [May 24,
2018]."
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Pub. L. 108–159, title IV, §411(d), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 2002, provided that: "This section
[amending this section and section 1681b of this title] shall take effect at the end of the 180-day
period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003], except that paragraph (2)
of section 604(g) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681b(g)(2)] (as amended by
subsection (a) of this section) shall take effect on the later of—
"(1) the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date on which the regulations required
under paragraph (5)(B) of such section 604(g) are issued in final form; or
"(2) the date specified in the regulations referred to in paragraph (1)."
Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Pub. L. 105–347, §7, Nov. 2, 1998, 112 Stat. 3211, provided that: "The amendments made by
this Act [amending this section and sections 1681b, 1681c, 1681g, 1681i, 1681k, and 1681s of
this title] shall be deemed to have the same effective date [see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208,
set out as a note below] as the amendments made by section 2403 of the Consumer Credit
Reporting Reform Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208; 110 Stat. 3009–1257 [3009–430])
[amending section 1681b of this title]."
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2420, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–454, provided that:
"(a) In General.—Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter [chapter 1
(§§2401–2422) of subtitle D of title II of div. A of Pub. L. 104–208, see Short Title of 1996
Amendment note set out under section 1601 of this title], the amendments made by this chapter
shall become effective 365 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 30, 1996].
"(b) Early Compliance.—Any person or other entity that is subject to the requirements of this
chapter may, at its option, comply with any provision of this chapter before the date on which
that provision becomes effective under this chapter, in which case, each of the corresponding
provisions of this chapter shall be fully applicable to such person or entity."

Effective Date of 1992 Amendment
Pub. L. 102–537, §2(d), Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3532, provided that: "The amendments
made by this section [enacting section 1681s–1 of this title and amending this section] shall take
effect on January 1, 1993."
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Construction of 1996 Amendment
Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2421, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–454, provided that:
"Nothing in this chapter [chapter 1 (§§2401–2422) of subtitle D of title II of div. A of Pub. L.
104–208,see Short Title of 1996 Amendment note set out under section 1601 of this title] or the
amendments made by this chapter shall be considered to supersede or otherwise affect section
2721 of title 18, United States Code, with respect to motor vehicle records for surveys,
marketing, or solicitations."
1

See References in Text note below.

2

So in original. The period probably should be "; and".

3

So in original.

§1681b. Permissible purposes of consumer reports
(a) In general
Subject to subsection (c), any consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report
under the following circumstances and no other:
(1) In response to the order of a court having jurisdiction to issue such an order, or a
subpoena issued in connection with proceedings before a Federal grand jury.
(2) In accordance with the written instructions of the consumer to whom it relates.
(3) To a person which it has reason to believe—
(A) intends to use the information in connection with a credit transaction involving the
consumer on whom the information is to be furnished and involving the extension of credit
to, or review or collection of an account of, the consumer; or
(B) intends to use the information for employment purposes; or
(C) intends to use the information in connection with the underwriting of insurance
involving the consumer; or
(D) intends to use the information in connection with a determination of the consumer's
eligibility for a license or other benefit granted by a governmental instrumentality required
by law to consider an applicant's financial responsibility or status; or
(E) intends to use the information, as a potential investor or servicer, or current insurer, in
connection with a valuation of, or an assessment of the credit or prepayment risks
associated with, an existing credit obligation; or

(F) otherwise has a legitimate business need for the information—
(i) in connection with a business transaction that is initiated by the consumer; or
(ii) to review an account to determine whether the consumer continues to meet the
terms of the account.
(G) executive departments and agencies in connection with the issuance of
government-sponsored individually-billed travel charge cards.
(4) In response to a request by the head of a State or local child support enforcement
agency (or a State or local government official authorized by the head of such an agency), if
the person making the request certifies to the consumer reporting agency that—
(A) the consumer report is needed for the purpose of establishing an individual's capacity
to make child support payments, determining the appropriate level of such payments, or
enforcing a child support order, award, agreement, or judgment;
(B) the parentage of the consumer for the child to which the obligation relates has been
established or acknowledged by the consumer in accordance with State laws under which
the obligation arises (if required by those laws); and
(C) the consumer report will be kept confidential, will be used solely for a purpose
described in subparagraph (A), and will not be used in connection with any other civil,
administrative, or criminal proceeding, or for any other purpose.
(5) To an agency administering a State plan under section 654 of title 42 for use to set an
initial or modified child support award.
(6) To the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union
Administration as part of its preparation for its appointment or as part of its exercise of
powers, as conservator, receiver, or liquidating agent for an insured depository institution or
insured credit union under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.] or the
Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.], or other applicable Federal or State law, or
in connection with the resolution or liquidation of a failed or failing insured depository
institution or insured credit union, as applicable.
(b) Conditions for furnishing and using consumer reports for employment purposes
(1) Certification from user
A consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report for employment purposes only
if—
(A) the person who obtains such report from the agency certifies to the agency that—
(i) the person has complied with paragraph (2) with respect to the consumer report, and
the person will comply with paragraph (3) with respect to the consumer report if
paragraph (3) becomes applicable; and
(ii) information from the consumer report will not be used in violation of any applicable
Federal or State equal employment opportunity law or regulation; and

(B) the consumer reporting agency provides with the report, or has previously provided, a
summary of the consumer's rights under this subchapter, as prescribed by the Bureau
under section 1681g(c)(3) 1 of this title.
(2) Disclosure to consumer
(A) In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a person may not procure a consumer report, or
cause a consumer report to be procured, for employment purposes with respect to any
consumer, unless—
(i) a clear and conspicuous disclosure has been made in writing to the consumer at any
time before the report is procured or caused to be procured, in a document that consists
solely of the disclosure, that a consumer report may be obtained for employment
purposes; and
(ii) the consumer has authorized in writing (which authorization may be made on the
document referred to in clause (i)) the procurement of the report by that person.
(B) Application by mail, telephone, computer, or other similar means
If a consumer described in subparagraph (C) applies for employment by mail, telephone,
computer, or other similar means, at any time before a consumer report is procured or
caused to be procured in connection with that application—
(i) the person who procures the consumer report on the consumer for employment
purposes shall provide to the consumer, by oral, written, or electronic means, notice that
a consumer report may be obtained for employment purposes, and a summary of the
consumer's rights under section 1681m(a)(3) 1 of this title; and
(ii) the consumer shall have consented, orally, in writing, or electronically to the
procurement of the report by that person.
(C) Scope
Subparagraph (B) shall apply to a person procuring a consumer report on a consumer in
connection with the consumer's application for employment only if—
(i) the consumer is applying for a position over which the Secretary of Transportation
has the power to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service pursuant to the
provisions of section 31502 of title 49, or a position subject to safety regulation by a State
transportation agency; and
(ii) as of the time at which the person procures the report or causes the report to be
procured the only interaction between the consumer and the person in connection with
that employment application has been by mail, telephone, computer, or other similar
means.
(3) Conditions on use for adverse actions
(A) In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), in using a consumer report for employment
purposes, before taking any adverse action based in whole or in part on the report, the
person intending to take such adverse action shall provide to the consumer to whom the
report relates—
(i) a copy of the report; and

(ii) a description in writing of the rights of the consumer under this subchapter, as
prescribed by the Bureau under section 1681g(c)(3) 1 of this title.
(B) Application by mail, telephone, computer, or other similar means
(i) If a consumer described in subparagraph (C) applies for employment by mail,
telephone, computer, or other similar means, and if a person who has procured a consumer
report on the consumer for employment purposes takes adverse action on the employment
application based in whole or in part on the report, then the person must provide to the
consumer to whom the report relates, in lieu of the notices required under subparagraph (A)
of this section and under section 1681m(a) of this title, within 3 business days of taking
such action, an oral, written or electronic notification—
(I) that adverse action has been taken based in whole or in part on a consumer report
received from a consumer reporting agency;
(II) of the name, address and telephone number of the consumer reporting agency that
furnished the consumer report (including a toll-free telephone number established by the
agency if the agency compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis);
(III) that the consumer reporting agency did not make the decision to take the adverse
action and is unable to provide to the consumer the specific reasons why the adverse
action was taken; and
(IV) that the consumer may, upon providing proper identification, request a free copy of
a report and may dispute with the consumer reporting agency the accuracy or
completeness of any information in a report.
(ii) If, under clause (B)(i)(IV), the consumer requests a copy of a consumer report from
the person who procured the report, then, within 3 business days of receiving the
consumer's request, together with proper identification, the person must send or provide to
the consumer a copy of a report and a copy of the consumer's rights as prescribed by the
Bureau under section 1681g(c)(3) 1 of this title.
(C) Scope
Subparagraph (B) shall apply to a person procuring a consumer report on a consumer in
connection with the consumer's application for employment only if—
(i) the consumer is applying for a position over which the Secretary of Transportation
has the power to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service pursuant to the
provisions of section 31502 of title 49, or a position subject to safety regulation by a State
transportation agency; and
(ii) as of the time at which the person procures the report or causes the report to be
procured the only interaction between the consumer and the person in connection with
that employment application has been by mail, telephone, computer, or other similar
means.
(4) Exception for national security investigations
(A) In general
In the case of an agency or department of the United States Government which seeks to
obtain and use a consumer report for employment purposes, paragraph (3) shall not apply

to any adverse action by such agency or department which is based in part on such
consumer report, if the head of such agency or department makes a written finding that—
(i) the consumer report is relevant to a national security investigation of such agency or
department;
(ii) the investigation is within the jurisdiction of such agency or department;
(iii) there is reason to believe that compliance with paragraph (3) will—
(I) endanger the life or physical safety of any person;
(II) result in flight from prosecution;
(III) result in the destruction of, or tampering with, evidence relevant to the
investigation;
(IV) result in the intimidation of a potential witness relevant to the investigation;
(V) result in the compromise of classified information; or
(VI) otherwise seriously jeopardize or unduly delay the investigation or another
official proceeding.
(B) Notification of consumer upon conclusion of investigation
Upon the conclusion of a national security investigation described in subparagraph (A), or
upon the determination that the exception under subparagraph (A) is no longer required for
the reasons set forth in such subparagraph, the official exercising the authority in such
subparagraph shall provide to the consumer who is the subject of the consumer report with
regard to which such finding was made—
(i) a copy of such consumer report with any classified information redacted as
necessary;
(ii) notice of any adverse action which is based, in part, on the consumer report; and
(iii) the identification with reasonable specificity of the nature of the investigation for
which the consumer report was sought.
(C) Delegation by head of agency or department
For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the head of any agency or department of the
United States Government may delegate his or her authorities under this paragraph to an
official of such agency or department who has personnel security responsibilities and is a
member of the Senior Executive Service or equivalent civilian or military rank.
(D) Definitions
For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply:
(i) Classified information
The term "classified information" means information that is protected from unauthorized
disclosure under Executive Order No. 12958 or successor orders.
(ii) National security investigation
The term "national security investigation" means any official inquiry by an agency or
department of the United States Government to determine the eligibility of a consumer to
receive access or continued access to classified information or to determine whether
classified information has been lost or compromised.

(c) Furnishing reports in connection with credit or insurance transactions that are not
initiated by consumer
(1) In general
A consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report relating to any consumer
pursuant to subparagraph (A) or (C) of subsection (a)(3) in connection with any credit or
insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer only if—
(A) the consumer authorizes the agency to provide such report to such person; or
(B)(i) the transaction consists of a firm offer of credit or insurance;
(ii) the consumer reporting agency has complied with subsection (e);
(iii) there is not in effect an election by the consumer, made in accordance with
subsection (e), to have the consumer's name and address excluded from lists of names
provided by the agency pursuant to this paragraph; and
(iv) the consumer report does not contain a date of birth that shows that the consumer
has not attained the age of 21, or, if the date of birth on the consumer report shows that the
consumer has not attained the age of 21, such consumer consents to the consumer
reporting agency to such furnishing.
(2) Limits on information received under paragraph (1)(B)
A person may receive pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) only—
(A) the name and address of a consumer;
(B) an identifier that is not unique to the consumer and that is used by the person solely
for the purpose of verifying the identity of the consumer; and
(C) other information pertaining to a consumer that does not identify the relationship or
experience of the consumer with respect to a particular creditor or other entity.
(3) Information regarding inquiries
Except as provided in section 1681g(a)(5) of this title, a consumer reporting agency shall
not furnish to any person a record of inquiries in connection with a credit or insurance
transaction that is not initiated by a consumer.
(d) Reserved
(e) Election of consumer to be excluded from lists
(1) In general
A consumer may elect to have the consumer's name and address excluded from any list
provided by a consumer reporting agency under subsection (c)(1)(B) in connection with a
credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer, by notifying the agency in
accordance with paragraph (2) that the consumer does not consent to any use of a consumer
report relating to the consumer in connection with any credit or insurance transaction that is
not initiated by the consumer.
(2) Manner of notification
A consumer shall notify a consumer reporting agency under paragraph (1)—
(A) through the notification system maintained by the agency under paragraph (5); or
(B) by submitting to the agency a signed notice of election form issued by the agency for
purposes of this subparagraph.

(3) Response of agency after notification through system
Upon receipt of notification of the election of a consumer under paragraph (1) through the
notification system maintained by the agency under paragraph (5), a consumer reporting
agency shall—
(A) inform the consumer that the election is effective only for the 5-year period following
the election if the consumer does not submit to the agency a signed notice of election form
issued by the agency for purposes of paragraph (2)(B); and
(B) provide to the consumer a notice of election form, if requested by the consumer, not
later than 5 business days after receipt of the notification of the election through the system
established under paragraph (5), in the case of a request made at the time the consumer
provides notification through the system.
(4) Effectiveness of election
An election of a consumer under paragraph (1)—
(A) shall be effective with respect to a consumer reporting agency beginning 5 business
days after the date on which the consumer notifies the agency in accordance with
paragraph (2);
(B) shall be effective with respect to a consumer reporting agency—
(i) subject to subparagraph (C), during the 5-year period beginning 5 business days
after the date on which the consumer notifies the agency of the election, in the case of an
election for which a consumer notifies the agency only in accordance with paragraph
(2)(A); or
(ii) until the consumer notifies the agency under subparagraph (C), in the case of an
election for which a consumer notifies the agency in accordance with paragraph (2)(B);
(C) shall not be effective after the date on which the consumer notifies the agency,
through the notification system established by the agency under paragraph (5), that the
election is no longer effective; and
(D) shall be effective with respect to each affiliate of the agency.
(5) Notification system
(A) In general
Each consumer reporting agency that, under subsection (c)(1)(B), furnishes a consumer
report in connection with a credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by a
consumer, shall—
(i) establish and maintain a notification system, including a toll-free telephone number,
which permits any consumer whose consumer report is maintained by the agency to
notify the agency, with appropriate identification, of the consumer's election to have the
consumer's name and address excluded from any such list of names and addresses
provided by the agency for such a transaction; and
(ii) publish by not later than 365 days after September 30, 1996, and not less than
annually thereafter, in a publication of general circulation in the area served by the
agency—
(I) a notification that information in consumer files maintained by the agency may be
used in connection with such transactions; and

(II) the address and toll-free telephone number for consumers to use to notify the
agency of the consumer's election under clause (i).
(B) Establishment and maintenance as compliance
Establishment and maintenance of a notification system (including a toll-free telephone
number) and publication by a consumer reporting agency on the agency's own behalf and
on behalf of any of its affiliates in accordance with this paragraph is deemed to be
compliance with this paragraph by each of those affiliates.
(6) Notification system by agencies that operate nationwide
Each consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a
nationwide basis shall establish and maintain a notification system for purposes of paragraph
(5) jointly with other such consumer reporting agencies.
(f) Certain use or obtaining of information prohibited
A person shall not use or obtain a consumer report for any purpose unless—
(1) the consumer report is obtained for a purpose for which the consumer report is
authorized to be furnished under this section; and
(2) the purpose is certified in accordance with section 1681e of this title by a prospective
user of the report through a general or specific certification.
(g) Protection of medical information
(1) Limitation on consumer reporting agencies
A consumer reporting agency shall not furnish for employment purposes, or in connection
with a credit or insurance transaction, a consumer report that contains medical information
(other than medical contact information treated in the manner required under section
1681c(a)(6) of this title) about a consumer, unless—
(A) if furnished in connection with an insurance transaction, the consumer affirmatively
consents to the furnishing of the report;
(B) if furnished for employment purposes or in connection with a credit transaction—
(i) the information to be furnished is relevant to process or effect the employment or
credit transaction; and
(ii) the consumer provides specific written consent for the furnishing of the report that
describes in clear and conspicuous language the use for which the information will be
furnished; or
(C) the information to be furnished pertains solely to transactions, accounts, or balances
relating to debts arising from the receipt of medical services, products, or devises, where
such information, other than account status or amounts, is restricted or reported using
codes that do not identify, or do not provide information sufficient to infer, the specific
provider or the nature of such services, products, or devices, as provided in section
1681c(a)(6) of this title.
(2) Limitation on creditors
Except as permitted pursuant to paragraph (3)(C) or regulations prescribed under
paragraph (5)(A), a creditor shall not obtain or use medical information (other than medical

information treated in the manner required under section 1681c(a)(6) of this title) pertaining to
a consumer in connection with any determination of the consumer's eligibility, or continued
eligibility, for credit.
(3) Actions authorized by Federal law, insurance activities and regulatory
determinations
Section 1681a(d)(3) of this title shall not be construed so as to treat information or any
communication of information as a consumer report if the information or communication is
disclosed—
(A) in connection with the business of insurance or annuities, including the activities
described in section 18B of the model Privacy of Consumer Financial and Health
Information Regulation issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (as
in effect on January 1, 2003);
(B) for any purpose permitted without authorization under the Standards for Individually
Identifiable Health Information promulgated by the Department of Health and Human
Services pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or
referred to under section 1179 of such Act, 1 or described in section 6802(e) of this title; or
(C) as otherwise determined to be necessary and appropriate, by regulation or order, by
the Bureau or the applicable State insurance authority (with respect to any person engaged
in providing insurance or annuities).
(4) Limitation on redisclosure of medical information
Any person that receives medical information pursuant to paragraph (1) or (3) shall not
disclose such information to any other person, except as necessary to carry out the purpose
for which the information was initially disclosed, or as otherwise permitted by statute,
regulation, or order.
(5) Regulations and effective date for paragraph (2)
(A) 2 Regulations required
The Bureau may, after notice and opportunity for comment, prescribe regulations that
permit transactions under paragraph (2) that are determined to be necessary and
appropriate to protect legitimate operational, transactional, risk, consumer, and other needs
(and which shall include permitting actions necessary for administrative verification
purposes), consistent with the intent of paragraph (2) to restrict the use of medical
information for inappropriate purposes.
(6) Coordination with other laws
No provision of this subsection shall be construed as altering, affecting, or superseding the
applicability of any other provision of Federal law relating to medical confidentiality.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §604, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1129; amended Pub. L. 101–73, title IX, §964(c), Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 506; Pub. L. 104–193,
title III, §352, Aug. 22, 1996, 110 Stat. 2240; Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §§2403, 2404(a),
(b), 2405, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–430, 3009-431, 3009-433, 3009-434; Pub. L.
105–107, title III, §311(a), Nov. 20, 1997, 111 Stat. 2255; Pub. L. 105–347, §§2, 3, 6(4), Nov. 2,
1998, 112 Stat. 3208, 3210, 3211; Pub. L. 107–306, title VIII, §811(b)(8)(A), Nov. 27, 2002, 116
Stat. 2426; Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §213(c), title IV, §§411(a), 412(f), title VIII, §811(b), Dec. 4,

2003, 117 Stat. 1979, 1999, 2003, 2011; Pub. L. 108–177, title III, §361(j), Dec. 13, 2003, 117
Stat. 2625; Pub. L. 109–351, title VII, §719, Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1998; Pub. L. 110–161, div.
D, title VII, §743, Dec. 26, 2007, 121 Stat. 2033; Pub. L. 111–24, title III, §302, May 22, 2009,
123 Stat. 1748; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(A), (4), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087; Pub.
L. 114–94, div. G, title LXXX, §80001, Dec. 4, 2015, 129 Stat. 1792.)
References in Text
The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(6), is act Sept. 21, 1950, ch.
967, §2, 64 Stat. 873, which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§1811 et seq.) of Title 12,
Banks and Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
out under section 1811 of Title 12 and Tables.
The Federal Credit Union Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(6), is act June 26, 1934, ch. 750, 48
Stat. 1216, which is classified principally to chapter 14 (§1751 et seq.) of Title 12, Banks and
Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1751 of Title 12 and
Tables.
Section 1681g(c) of this title, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B), (3)(A)(ii), (B)(ii), was amended
generally by Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §211(c), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1970, and, as so
amended, no longer contains a par. (3).
Section 1681m(a)(3) of this title, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B)(i), was redesignated section
1681m(a)(4) of this title by Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1100F(1)(A), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2112.
Executive Order No. 12958, referred to in subsec. (b)(4)(D)(i), which was formerly set out
under section 435 (now section 3161) of Title 50, War and National Defense, was revoked by
Ex. Ord. No. 13526, §6.2(g), Dec. 29, 2009, 75 F.R. 731.
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, referred to in subsec.
(g)(3)(B), is Pub. L. 104–191, Aug. 21, 1996, 110 Stat. 1936. For complete classification of this
Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1996 Amendments note set out under section 201 of Title 42,
The Public Health and Welfare, and Tables.
Section 1179 of such Act, referred to in subsec. (g)(3)(B), probably means section 1179 of the
Social Security Act, as added by section 262(a) of Pub. L. 104–191, title II, Aug. 21, 1996, 110
Stat. 2030, which is classified to section 1320d–8 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
Amendments
2015—Subsec. (a)(4)(A). Pub. L. 114–94, §80001(1), substituted ", determining the
appropriate level of such payments, or enforcing a child support order, award, agreement, or
judgment" for "or determining the appropriate level of such payments".
Subsec. (a)(4)(B). Pub. L. 114–94, §80001(2)(A), substituted "parentage" for "paternity" and
inserted "and" at end.
Subsec. (a)(4)(C), (D). Pub. L. 114–94, §80001(3), (4), redesignated subpar. (D) as (C) and
struck out former subpar. (C) which read as follows: "the person has provided at least 10 days'

prior notice to the consumer whose report is requested, by certified or registered mail to the last
known address of the consumer, that the report will be requested; and".
2010—Subsec. (b)(1)(B), (3)(A)(ii), (B)(ii). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(A), substituted
"Bureau" for "Federal Trade Commission".
Subsec. (g)(3)(C). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(4)(A), added subpar. (C) and struck out former
subpar. (C) which read as follows: "as otherwise determined to be necessary and appropriate,
by regulation or order and subject to paragraph (6), by the Commission, any Federal banking
agency or the National Credit Union Administration (with respect to any financial institution
subject to the jurisdiction of such agency or Administration under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of
section 1681s(b) of this title, or the applicable State insurance authority (with respect to any
person engaged in providing insurance or annuities)."
Subsec. (g)(5). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(4)(B), added par. (5) and struck out former par. (5)
which related to prescription of par. (2) regulations by each Federal banking agency and the
National Credit Union Administration and required issuance of final regulations before the end of
the 6-month period beginning on Dec. 4, 2003.
2009—Subsec. (c)(1)(B)(iv). Pub. L. 111–24 added cl. (iv).
2007—Subsec. (a)(3)(G). Pub. L. 110–161 added subpar. (G).
2006—Subsec. (a)(6). Pub. L. 109–351 added par. (6).
2003—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108–159, §811(b), realigned margins.
Subsec. (b)(4)(D) to (F). Pub. L. 108–177 struck out subpars. (D) and (E) and redesignated
subpar. (F) as (D). Prior to amendment, subpars. (D) and (E) read as follows:
"(D) Report to the congress.—Except as provided in subparagraph (E), not later than January
31 of each year, the head of each agency and department of the United States Government that
exercised authority under this paragraph during the preceding year shall submit a report to the
Congress on the number of times the department or agency exercised such authority during the
year.
"(E) Reports to congressional intelligence committees.—In the case of a report to be
submitted under subparagraph (D) to the congressional intelligence committees (as defined in
section 401a of title 50), the submittal date for such report shall be as provided in section 415b
of title 50."
Subsec. (e)(3)(A), (4)(B)(i). Pub. L. 108–159, §213(c), substituted "5-year period" for "2-year
period".
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–159, §411(a), amended heading and text of subsec. (g) generally.
Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "A consumer reporting agency shall not furnish for
employment purposes, or in connection with a credit or insurance transaction, a consumer
report that contains medical information about a consumer, unless the consumer consents to
the furnishing of the report."

Subsec. (g)(1). Pub. L. 108–159, §412(f)(1), inserted "(other than medical contact information
treated in the manner required under section 1681c(a)(6) of this title)" after "a consumer report
that contains medical information" in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (g)(2). Pub. L. 108–159, §412(f)(2), inserted "(other than medical information treated
in the manner required under section 1681c(a)(6) of this title)" after "a creditor shall not obtain or
use medical information".
2002—Subsec. (b)(4)(D). Pub. L. 107–306, §811(b)(8)(A)(i), substituted "Except as provided
in subparagraph (E), not later than" for "Not later than".
Subsec. (b)(4)(E), (F). Pub. L. 107–306, §811(b)(8)(A)(ii), (iii), added subpar. (E) and
redesignated former subpar. (E) as (F).
1998—Subsec. (b)(1)(B). Pub. L. 105–347, §3, inserted ", or has previously provided," before
"a summary".
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 105–347, §2(a), amended heading and text of par. (2) generally. Prior
to amendment, text read as follows: "A person may not procure a consumer report, or cause a
consumer report to be procured, for employment purposes with respect to any consumer,
unless—
"(A) a clear and conspicuous disclosure has been made in writing to the consumer at any
time before the report is procured or caused to be procured, in a document that consists
solely of the disclosure, that a consumer report may be obtained for employment purposes;
and
"(B) the consumer has authorized in writing the procurement of the report by that person."
Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 105–347, §2(b), amended heading and text of par. (3) generally. Prior
to amendment, text read as follows: "In using a consumer report for employment purposes,
before taking any adverse action based in whole or in part on the report, the person intending to
take such adverse action shall provide to the consumer to whom the report relates—
"(A) a copy of the report; and
"(B) a description in writing of the rights of the consumer under this subchapter, as
prescribed by the Federal Trade Commission under section 1681g(c)(3) of this title."
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 105–347, §6(4), struck out "or a direct marketing transaction" after "or
insurance transaction".
1997—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 105–107 added par. (4).
1996—Pub. L. 104–208, §§2403(a), 2404(a)(1), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a)
and inserted heading, substituted "Subject to subsection (c), any consumer reporting agency"
for "A consumer reporting agency" in introductory provisions, added subpars. (E) and (F) of par.
(3), and struck out former subpar. (E) of par. (3) which read as follows: "otherwise has a
legitimate business need for the information in connection with a business transaction involving
the consumer."

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2403(b), added subsec. (b).
Subsecs. (c) to (e). Pub. L. 104–208, §2404(a)(2), added subsecs. (c) to (e).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 104–208, §2404(b), added subsec. (f).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 104–208, §2405, added subsec. (g).
Pars. (4), (5). Pub. L. 104–193 added pars. (4) and (5).
1989—Par. (1). Pub. L. 101–73 inserted ", or a subpoena issued in connection with
proceedings before a Federal grand jury" before period at end.
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2009 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–24 effective 9 months after May 22, 2009, except as otherwise
specifically provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–24, set out as a note under section 1602 of
this title.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendments
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–177 effective Dec. 31, 2003, see section 361(n) of Pub. L.
108–177, set out as a note under section 1611 of Title 10, Armed Forces.
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Amendment by section 411 of Pub. L. 108–159 effective at end of 180-day period beginning
on Dec. 4, 2003, with certain exceptions, see section 411(d) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as an
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 1681a of this title.
Pub. L. 108–159, title IV, §412(g), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 2003, provided that: "The
amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 1681c, 1681s, and
1681s–2 of this title] shall take effect at the end of the 15-month period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003]."
Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–347 deemed to have same effective date as amendments made
by section 2403 of Pub. L. 104–208, see section 7 of Pub. L. 105–347, set out as a note under
section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 1997 Amendment
Pub. L. 105–107, title III, §311(c), Nov. 20, 1997, 111 Stat. 2256, provided that: "The
amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [amending this section and section 1681e of this
title] shall take effect as if such amendments had been included in chapter 1 of subtitle D of the

Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996 [chapter 1 (§§2401–2422)
of subtitle D of title II of div. A of Pub. L. 104–208], as of the date of the enactment of such Act
[Sept. 30, 1996]."
Effective Date of 1996 Amendments
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
For effective date of amendment by Pub. L. 104–193, see section 395(a)–(c) of Pub. L.
104–193, set out as a note under section 654 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Public Awareness Campaign
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §213(d), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1979, provided that: "The
Commission shall actively publicize and conspicuously post on its website any address and the
toll-free telephone number established as part of a notification system for opting out of
prescreening under section 604(e) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681b(e)), and
otherwise take measures to increase public awareness regarding the availability of the right to
opt out of prescreening."
[For definitions of terms used in section 213(d) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]
Coordination With Federal Laws Relating to Medical Confidentiality
Pub. L. 108–159, title IV, §412(d), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 2002, provided that: "No provision
of any amendment made by this section [amending this section and sections 1681c, 1681s, and
1681s–2 of this title] shall be construed as altering, affecting, or superseding the applicability of
any other provision of Federal law relating to medical confidentiality."
FTC Guidelines Regarding Prescreening for Insurance Transactions
Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2404(c), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–434, provided that:
"The Federal Trade Commission may issue such guidelines as it deems necessary with respect
to the use of consumer reports in connection with insurance transactions that are not initiated by
the consumer pursuant to section 604(c) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681b(c)],
as added by subsection (a) of this section."
1

See References in Text note below.

2

So in original. No subpar. (B) has been enacted.

§1681c. Requirements relating to information contained in consumer
reports
(a) Information excluded from consumer reports
Except as authorized under subsection (b), no consumer reporting agency may make any
consumer report containing any of the following items of information:
(1) Cases under title 11 or under the Bankruptcy Act that, from the date of entry of the order
for relief or the date of adjudication, as the case may be, antedate the report by more than 10
years.
(2) Civil suits, civil judgments, and records of arrest that, from date of entry, antedate the
report by more than seven years or until the governing statute of limitations has expired,
whichever is the longer period.
(3) Paid tax liens which, from date of payment, antedate the report by more than seven years.
(4) Accounts placed for collection or charged to profit and loss which antedate the report by
more than seven years.
(5) Any other adverse item of information, other than records of convictions of crimes which
antedates the report by more than seven years.
(6) The name, address, and telephone number of any medical information furnisher that has
notified the agency of its status, unless—
(A) such name, address, and telephone number are restricted or reported using codes that
do not identify, or provide information sufficient to infer, the specific provider or the nature of
such services, products, or devices to a person other than the consumer; or
(B) the report is being provided to an insurance company for a purpose relating to engaging
in the business of insurance other than property and casualty insurance.
(7) With respect to a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title,
any information related to a veteran's medical debt if the date on which the hospital care,
medical services, or extended care services was rendered relating to the debt antedates the
report by less than 1 year if the consumer reporting agency has actual knowledge that the
information is related to a veteran's medical debt and the consumer reporting agency is in
compliance with its obligation under section 302(c)(5) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory
Relief, and Consumer Protection Act.
(8) With respect to a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title,
any information related to a fully paid or settled veteran's medical debt that had been
characterized as delinquent, charged off, or in collection if the consumer reporting agency has
actual knowledge that the information is related to a veteran's medical debt and the consumer
reporting agency is in compliance with its obligation under section 302(c)(5) of the Economic
Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act.
(b) Exempted cases
The provisions of paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a) are not applicable in the case
of any consumer credit report to be used in connection with—
(1) a credit transaction involving, or which may reasonably be expected to involve, a
principal amount of $150,000 or more;

(2) the underwriting of life insurance involving, or which may reasonably be expected to
involve, a face amount of $150,000 or more; or
(3) the employment of any individual at an annual salary which equals, or which may
reasonably be expected to equal $75,000, or more.
(c) Running of reporting period
(1) In general
The 7-year period referred to in paragraphs (4) and (6) of subsection (a) shall begin, with
respect to any delinquent account that is placed for collection (internally or by referral to a
third party, whichever is earlier), charged to profit and loss, or subjected to any similar action,
upon the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the commencement of the
delinquency which immediately preceded the collection activity, charge to profit and loss, or
similar action.
(2) Effective date
Paragraph (1) shall apply only to items of information added to the file of a consumer on or
after the date that is 455 days after September 30, 1996.
(d) Information required to be disclosed
(1) Title 11 information
Any consumer reporting agency that furnishes a consumer report that contains information
regarding any case involving the consumer that arises under title 11 shall include in the report
an identification of the chapter of such title 11 under which such case arises if provided by the
source of the information. If any case arising or filed under title 11 is withdrawn by the
consumer before a final judgment, the consumer reporting agency shall include in the report
that such case or filing was withdrawn upon receipt of documentation certifying such
withdrawal.
(2) Key factor in credit score information
Any consumer reporting agency that furnishes a consumer report that contains any credit
score or any other risk score or predictor on any consumer shall include in the report a clear
and conspicuous statement that a key factor (as defined in section 1681g(f)(2)(B) of this title)
that adversely affected such score or predictor was the number of enquiries, if such a
predictor was in fact a key factor that adversely affected such score. This paragraph shall not
apply to a check services company, acting as such, which issues authorizations for the
purpose of approving or processing negotiable instruments, electronic fund transfers, or
similar methods of payments, but only to the extent that such company is engaged in such
activities.
(e) Indication of closure of account by consumer
If a consumer reporting agency is notified pursuant to section 1681s–2(a)(4) of this title that a
credit account of a consumer was voluntarily closed by the consumer, the agency shall indicate
that fact in any consumer report that includes information related to the account.
(f) Indication of dispute by consumer
If a consumer reporting agency is notified pursuant to section 1681s–2(a)(3) of this title that
information regarding a consumer who 1 was furnished to the agency is disputed by the

consumer, the agency shall indicate that fact in each consumer report that includes the disputed
information.
(g) Truncation of credit card and debit card numbers
(1) In general
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no person that accepts credit cards or
debit cards for the transaction of business shall print more than the last 5 digits of the card
number or the expiration date upon any receipt provided to the cardholder at the point of the
sale or transaction.
(2) Limitation
This subsection shall apply only to receipts that are electronically printed, and shall not
apply to transactions in which the sole means of recording a credit card or debit card account
number is by handwriting or by an imprint or copy of the card.
(3) Effective date
This subsection shall become effective—
(A) 3 years after December 4, 2003, with respect to any cash register or other machine or
device that electronically prints receipts for credit card or debit card transactions that is in
use before January 1, 2005; and
(B) 1 year after December 4, 2003, with respect to any cash register or other machine or
device that electronically prints receipts for credit card or debit card transactions that is first
put into use on or after January 1, 2005.
(h) Notice of discrepancy in address
(1) In general
If a person has requested a consumer report relating to a consumer from a consumer
reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title, the request includes an address
for the consumer that substantially differs from the addresses in the file of the consumer, and
the agency provides a consumer report in response to the request, the consumer reporting
agency shall notify the requester of the existence of the discrepancy.
(2) Regulations
(A) Regulations required
The Bureau shall,,2 in consultation with the Federal banking agencies, the National Credit
Union Administration, and the Federal Trade Commission,, 2 prescribe regulations providing
guidance regarding reasonable policies and procedures that a user of a consumer report
should employ when such user has received a notice of discrepancy under paragraph (1).
(B) Policies and procedures to be included
The regulations prescribed under subparagraph (A) shall describe reasonable policies
and procedures for use by a user of a consumer report—
(i) to form a reasonable belief that the user knows the identity of the person to whom
the consumer report pertains; and
(ii) if the user establishes a continuing relationship with the consumer, and the user
regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to the consumer

reporting agency from which the notice of discrepancy pertaining to the consumer was
obtained, to reconcile the address of the consumer with the consumer reporting agency
by furnishing such address to such consumer reporting agency as part of information
regularly furnished by the user for the period in which the relationship is established.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §605, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1129; amended Pub. L. 95–598, title III, §312(b), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2676; Pub. L. 104–208,
div. A, title II, §2406(a)–(e)(1), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–434, 3009-435; Pub. L. 105–347,
§5, Nov. 2, 1998, 112 Stat. 3211; Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §113, title II, §212(d), title III, §315, title
IV, §412(b), (c), title VIII, §811(c)(1), (2)(A), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1959, 1977, 1996, 2002,
2011; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(D), (5), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087; Pub. L.
115–174, title III, §302(b)(2), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1333.)
References in Text
The Bankruptcy Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was act July 1, 1898, ch. 541, 30 Stat. 544,
as amended, which was classified to section 1 et seq. of former Title 11, Bankruptcy, prior to its
repeal by Pub. L. 95–598, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2549, section 101 of which enacted revised
Title 11.
Section 302(c)(5) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act,
referred to in subsec. (a)(7), (8), is section 302(c)(5) of Pub. L. 115–174, which is set out as a
note below.
Amendments
2018—Subsec. (a)(7), (8). Pub. L. 115–174 added pars. (7) and (8).
2010—Subsec. (h)(2)(A). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(5), substituted ", in consultation with the
Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Federal Trade
Commission," for "with respect to the entities that are subject to their respective enforcement
authority under section 1681s of this title".
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(D), substituted "The Bureau shall" for "The Federal banking
agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Commission shall jointly".
2003—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 108–159, §811(c)(1), substituted "(1) Cases" for "(1) cases".
Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 108–159, §811(c)(2)(A), made technical correction to directory
language of Pub. L. 105–347, §5(1). See 1998 Amendment note below.
Subsec. (a)(6). Pub. L. 108–159, §412(b), added par. (6).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 108–159, §412(c), substituted "The provisions of paragraphs (1) through
(5) of subsection (a)" for "The provisions of subsection (a)" in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–159, §212(d), designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted
heading, and added par. (2).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–159, §113, added subsec. (g).
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 108–159, §315, added subsec. (h).

1998—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 105–347, §5(1), as amended by Pub. L. 108–159,
§811(c)(2)(A), substituted "Civil suits, civil judgments, and records of arrest that" for "Suits and
judgments which".
Subsec. (a)(5), (6). Pub. L. 105–347, §5(2)–(4), redesignated par. (6) as (5), inserted ", other
than records of convictions of crimes" after "of information", and struck out former par. (5) which
read as follows: "Records of arrest, indictment, or conviction of crime which, from date of
disposition, release, or parole, antedate the report by more than seven years."
1996—Pub. L. 104–208, §2406(e)(1), amended section catchline.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2406(a)(1), inserted heading.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2406(a)(2), substituted "$150,000" for "$50,000" in pars. (1)
and (2) and "$75,000" for "$20,000" in par. (3).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–208, §2406(b), added subsec. (c).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2406(c), added subsec. (d).
Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 104–208, §2406(d), added subsecs. (e) and (f).
1978—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 95–598 substituted "cases under title 11 or under the
Bankruptcy Act that, from the date of entry of the order for relief or the date of adjudication, as
the case may be, antedate the report by more than 10 years" for "Bankruptcies which, from date
of adjudication of the most recent bankruptcy, antedate the report by more than fourteen years".
Effective Date of 2018 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 115–174 effective 1 year after May 24, 2018, see section 302(e) of
Pub. L. 115–174, set out as a note under section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Amendment by section 412 of Pub. L. 108–159 effective at end of 15-month period beginning
on Dec. 4, 2003, see section 412(g) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681b
of this title.
Pub. L. 108–159, title VIII, §811(c)(2)(B), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 2011, provided that: "The
amendment made by subparagraph (A) [amending this section] shall be deemed to have the
same effective date as section 5(1) of Public Law 105–347 (112 Stat. 3211) [see Effective Date
of 1998 Amendment note below]."

Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–347 deemed to have same effective date as amendments made
by section 2403 of Pub. L. 104–208, see section 7 of Pub. L. 105–347, set out as a note under
section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date of 1978 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 95–598 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95–598,
set out as an Effective Date note preceding section 101 of Title 11, Bankruptcy.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Verification of Veteran's Medical Debt
Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §302(c), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1334, provided that:
"(1) Definitions.—For purposes of this subsection—
"(A) the term 'consumer reporting agency' means a consumer reporting agency described
in section 603(p) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)); and
"(B) the terms 'veteran' and 'veteran's medical debt' have the meanings given those
terms in section 603 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a), as added by
subsection (b)(1).
"(2) Establishment.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [May 24,
2018], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a database to allow consumer reporting
agencies to verify whether a debt furnished to a consumer reporting agency is a veteran's
medical debt.
"(3) Database features.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the database
established under paragraph (2), to the extent permitted by law, provides consumer reporting
agencies with—
"(A) sufficiently detailed and specific information to verify whether a debt being furnished
to the consumer reporting agency is a veteran's medical debt;
"(B) access to verification information in a secure electronic format;
"(C) timely access to verification information; and

"(D) any other features that would promote the efficient, timely, and secure delivery of
information that consumer reporting agencies could use to verify whether a debt is a veteran's
medical debt.
"(4) Stakeholder input.—Prior to establishing the database for verification under paragraph
(2), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish in the Federal Register a notice and request
for comment that solicits input from consumer reporting agencies and other stakeholders.
"(5) Verification.—Provided the database established under paragraph (2) is fully functional
and the data available to consumer reporting agencies, a consumer reporting agency shall use
the database as a means to identify a veteran's medical debt pursuant to paragraphs (7) and (8)
of section 605(a) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681c(a)), as added by subsection
(b)(2)."
1

So in original. Probably should be "which".

2

So in original.

§1681c–1. Identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and active duty alerts
(a) One-call fraud alerts
(1) Initial alerts
Upon the direct request of a consumer, or an individual acting on behalf of or as a personal
representative of a consumer, who asserts in good faith a suspicion that the consumer has
been or is about to become a victim of fraud or related crime, including identity theft, a
consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title that maintains a file on
the consumer and has received appropriate proof of the identity of the requester shall—
(A) include a fraud alert in the file of that consumer, and also provide that alert along with
any credit score generated in using that file, for a period of not less than 1 year, beginning
on the date of such request, unless the consumer or such representative requests that such
fraud alert be removed before the end of such period, and the agency has received
appropriate proof of the identity of the requester for such purpose; and
(B) refer the information regarding the fraud alert under this paragraph to each of the
other consumer reporting agencies described in section 1681a(p) of this title, in accordance
with procedures developed under section 1681s(f) of this title.
(2) Access to free reports
In any case in which a consumer reporting agency includes a fraud alert in the file of a
consumer pursuant to this subsection, the consumer reporting agency shall—
(A) disclose to the consumer that the consumer may request a free copy of the file of the
consumer pursuant to section 1681j(d) of this title; and
(B) provide to the consumer all disclosures required to be made under section 1681g of
this title, without charge to the consumer, not later than 3 business days after any request
described in subparagraph (A).
(b) Extended alerts

(1) In general
Upon the direct request of a consumer, or an individual acting on behalf of or as a personal
representative of a consumer, who submits an identity theft report to a consumer reporting
agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title that maintains a file on the consumer, if the
agency has received appropriate proof of the identity of the requester, the agency shall—
(A) include a fraud alert in the file of that consumer, and also provide that alert along with
any credit score generated in using that file, during the 7-year period beginning on the date
of such request, unless the consumer or such representative requests that such fraud alert
be removed before the end of such period and the agency has received appropriate proof
of the identity of the requester for such purpose;
(B) during the 5-year period beginning on the date of such request, exclude the
consumer from any list of consumers prepared by the consumer reporting agency and
provided to any third party to offer credit or insurance to the consumer as part of a
transaction that was not initiated by the consumer, unless the consumer or such
representative requests that such exclusion be rescinded before the end of such period;
and
(C) refer the information regarding the extended fraud alert under this paragraph to each
of the other consumer reporting agencies described in section 1681a(p) of this title, in
accordance with procedures developed under section 1681s(f) of this title.
(2) Access to free reports
In any case in which a consumer reporting agency includes a fraud alert in the file of a
consumer pursuant to this subsection, the consumer reporting agency shall—
(A) disclose to the consumer that the consumer may request 2 free copies of the file of
the consumer pursuant to section 1681j(d) of this title during the 12-month period beginning
on the date on which the fraud alert was included in the file; and
(B) provide to the consumer all disclosures required to be made under section 1681g of
this title, without charge to the consumer, not later than 3 business days after any request
described in subparagraph (A).
(c) Active duty alerts
Upon the direct request of an active duty military consumer, or an individual acting on behalf
of or as a personal representative of an active duty military consumer, a consumer reporting
agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title that maintains a file on the active duty military
consumer and has received appropriate proof of the identity of the requester shall—
(1) include an active duty alert in the file of that active duty military consumer, and also
provide that alert along with any credit score generated in using that file, during a period of
not less than 12 months, or such longer period as the Bureau shall determine, by regulation,
beginning on the date of the request, unless the active duty military consumer or such
representative requests that such fraud alert be removed before the end of such period, and
the agency has received appropriate proof of the identity of the requester for such purpose;
(2) during the 2-year period beginning on the date of such request, exclude the active duty
military consumer from any list of consumers prepared by the consumer reporting agency and
provided to any third party to offer credit or insurance to the consumer as part of a transaction

that was not initiated by the consumer, unless the consumer requests that such exclusion be
rescinded before the end of such period; and
(3) refer the information regarding the active duty alert to each of the other consumer
reporting agencies described in section 1681a(p) of this title, in accordance with procedures
developed under section 1681s(f) of this title.
(d) Procedures
Each consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title shall establish
policies and procedures to comply with this section, including procedures that inform consumers
of the availability of initial, extended, and active duty alerts and procedures that allow
consumers and active duty military consumers to request initial, extended, or active duty alerts
(as applicable) in a simple and easy manner, including by telephone.
(e) Referrals of alerts
Each consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title that receives a
referral of a fraud alert or active duty alert from another consumer reporting agency pursuant to
this section shall, as though the agency received the request from the consumer directly, follow
the procedures required under—
(1) paragraphs (1)(A) and (2) of subsection (a), in the case of a referral under subsection
(a)(1)(B);
(2) paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(B), and (2) of subsection (b), in the case of a referral under
subsection (b)(1)(C); and
(3) paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c), in the case of a referral under subsection
(c)(3).
(f) Duty of reseller to reconvey alert
A reseller shall include in its report any fraud alert or active duty alert placed in the file of a
consumer pursuant to this section by another consumer reporting agency.
(g) Duty of other consumer reporting agencies to provide contact information
If a consumer contacts any consumer reporting agency that is not described in section
1681a(p) of this title to communicate a suspicion that the consumer has been or is about to
become a victim of fraud or related crime, including identity theft, the agency shall provide
information to the consumer on how to contact the Bureau and the consumer reporting agencies
described in section 1681a(p) of this title to obtain more detailed information and request alerts
under this section.
(h) Limitations on use of information for credit extensions
(1) Requirements for initial and active duty alerts
(A) Notification
Each initial fraud alert and active duty alert under this section shall include information
that notifies all prospective users of a consumer report on the consumer to which the alert
relates that the consumer does not authorize the establishment of any new credit plan or
extension of credit, other than under an open-end credit plan (as defined in section 1602(i) 1
of this title), in the name of the consumer, or issuance of an additional card on an existing

credit account requested by a consumer, or any increase in credit limit on an existing credit
account requested by a consumer, except in accordance with subparagraph (B).
(B) Limitation on users
(i) In general
No prospective user of a consumer report that includes an initial fraud alert or an active
duty alert in accordance with this section may establish a new credit plan or extension of
credit, other than under an open-end credit plan (as defined in section 1602(i) 1 of this
title), in the name of the consumer, or issue an additional card on an existing credit
account requested by a consumer, or grant any increase in credit limit on an existing
credit account requested by a consumer, unless the user utilizes reasonable policies and
procedures to form a reasonable belief that the user knows the identity of the person
making the request.
(ii) Verification
If a consumer requesting the alert has specified a telephone number to be used for
identity verification purposes, before authorizing any new credit plan or extension
described in clause (i) in the name of such consumer, a user of such consumer report
shall contact the consumer using that telephone number or take reasonable steps to
verify the consumer's identity and confirm that the application for a new credit plan is not
the result of identity theft.
(2) Requirements for extended alerts
(A) Notification
Each extended alert under this section shall include information that provides all
prospective users of a consumer report relating to a consumer with—
(i) notification that the consumer does not authorize the establishment of any new
credit plan or extension of credit described in clause (i), other than under an open-end
credit plan (as defined in section 1602(i) 1 of this title), in the name of the consumer, or
issuance of an additional card on an existing credit account requested by a consumer, or
any increase in credit limit on an existing credit account requested by a consumer, except
in accordance with subparagraph (B); and
(ii) a telephone number or other reasonable contact method designated by the
consumer.
(B) Limitation on users
No prospective user of a consumer report or of a credit score generated using the
information in the file of a consumer that includes an extended fraud alert in accordance
with this section may establish a new credit plan or extension of credit, other than under an
open-end credit plan (as defined in section 1602(i) 1 of this title), in the name of the
consumer, or issue an additional card on an existing credit account requested by a
consumer, or any increase in credit limit on an existing credit account requested by a
consumer, unless the user contacts the consumer in person or using the contact method
described in subparagraph (A)(ii) to confirm that the application for a new credit plan or
increase in credit limit, or request for an additional card is not the result of identity theft.

(i) National security freeze
(1) Definitions
For purposes of this subsection:
(A) The term "consumer reporting agency" means a consumer reporting agency
described in section 1681a(p) of this title.
(B) The term "proper identification" has the meaning of such term as used under section
1681h of this title.
(C) The term "security freeze" means a restriction that prohibits a consumer reporting
agency from disclosing the contents of a consumer report that is subject to such security
freeze to any person requesting the consumer report.
(2) Placement of security freeze
(A) In general
Upon receiving a direct request from a consumer that a consumer reporting agency place
a security freeze, and upon receiving proper identification from the consumer, the consumer
reporting agency shall, free of charge, place the security freeze not later than—
(i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1
business day after receiving the request directly from the consumer; or
(ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request
directly from the consumer.
(B) Confirmation and additional information
Not later than 5 business days after placing a security freeze under subparagraph (A), a
consumer reporting agency shall—
(i) send confirmation of the placement to the consumer; and
(ii) inform the consumer of—
(I) the process by which the consumer may remove the security freeze, including a
mechanism to authenticate the consumer; and
(II) the consumer's right described in section 1681m(d)(1)(D) of this title.
(C) Notice to third parties
A consumer reporting agency may advise a third party that a security freeze has been
placed with respect to a consumer under subparagraph (A).
(3) Removal of security freeze
(A) In general
A consumer reporting agency shall remove a security freeze placed on the consumer
report of a consumer only in the following cases:
(i) Upon the direct request of the consumer.
(ii) The security freeze was placed due to a material misrepresentation of fact by the
consumer.
(B) Notice if removal not by request
If a consumer reporting agency removes a security freeze under subparagraph (A)(ii), the
consumer reporting agency shall notify the consumer in writing prior to removing the
security freeze.

(C) Removal of security freeze by consumer request
Except as provided in subparagraph (A)(ii), a security freeze shall remain in place until
the consumer directly requests that the security freeze be removed. Upon receiving a direct
request from a consumer that a consumer reporting agency remove a security freeze, and
upon receiving proper identification from the consumer, the consumer reporting agency
shall, free of charge, remove the security freeze not later than—
(i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1
hour after receiving the request for removal; or
(ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request
for removal.
(D) Third-party requests
If a third party requests access to a consumer report of a consumer with respect to which
a security freeze is in effect, where such request is in connection with an application for
credit, and the consumer does not allow such consumer report to be accessed, the third
party may treat the application as incomplete.
(E) Temporary removal of security freeze
Upon receiving a direct request from a consumer under subparagraph (A)(i), if the
consumer requests a temporary removal of a security freeze, the consumer reporting
agency shall, in accordance with subparagraph (C), remove the security freeze for the
period of time specified by the consumer.
(4) Exceptions
A security freeze shall not apply to the making of a consumer report for use of the following:
(A) A person or entity, or a subsidiary, affiliate, or agent of that person or entity, or an
assignee of a financial obligation owed by the consumer to that person or entity, or a
prospective assignee of a financial obligation owed by the consumer to that person or entity
in conjunction with the proposed purchase of the financial obligation, with which the
consumer has or had prior to assignment an account or contract including a demand
deposit account, or to whom the consumer issued a negotiable instrument, for the purposes
of reviewing the account or collecting the financial obligation owed for the account, contract,
or negotiable instrument. For purposes of this subparagraph, "reviewing the account"
includes activities related to account maintenance, monitoring, credit line increases, and
account upgrades and enhancements.
(B) Any Federal, State, or local agency, law enforcement agency, trial court, or private
collection agency acting pursuant to a court order, warrant, or subpoena.
(C) A child support agency acting pursuant to part D of title IV of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 651 et seq.).
(D) A Federal agency or a State or its agents or assigns acting to investigate fraud or
acting to investigate or collect delinquent taxes or unpaid court orders or to fulfill any of its
other statutory responsibilities, provided such responsibilities are consistent with a
permissible purpose under section 1681b of this title.
(E) By a person using credit information for the purposes described under section
1681b(c) of this title.

(F) Any person or entity administering a credit file monitoring subscription or similar
service to which the consumer has subscribed.
(G) Any person or entity for the purpose of providing a consumer with a copy of the
consumer's consumer report or credit score, upon the request of the consumer.
(H) Any person using the information in connection with the underwriting of insurance.
(I) Any person using the information for employment, tenant, or background screening
purposes.
(J) Any person using the information for assessing, verifying, or authenticating a
consumer's identity for purposes other than the granting of credit, or for investigating or
preventing actual or potential fraud.
(5) Notice of rights
At any time a consumer is required to receive a summary of rights required under section
1681g of this title, the following notice shall be included:

"Consumers Have the Right To Obtain a Security Freeze
"You have a right to place a 'security freeze' on your credit report, which will prohibit a
consumer reporting agency from releasing information in your credit report without your express
authorization. The security freeze is designed to prevent credit, loans, and services from being
approved in your name without your consent. However, you should be aware that using a
security freeze to take control over who gets access to the personal and financial information in
your credit report may delay, interfere with, or prohibit the timely approval of any subsequent
request or application you make regarding a new loan, credit, mortgage, or any other account
involving the extension of credit.
"As an alternative to a security freeze, you have the right to place an initial or extended fraud
alert on your credit file at no cost. An initial fraud alert is a 1-year alert that is placed on a
consumer's credit file. Upon seeing a fraud alert display on a consumer's credit file, a business
is required to take steps to verify the consumer's identity before extending new credit. If you are
a victim of identity theft, you are entitled to an extended fraud alert, which is a fraud alert lasting
7 years.
"A security freeze does not apply to a person or entity, or its affiliates, or collection agencies
acting on behalf of the person or entity, with which you have an existing account that requests
information in your credit report for the purposes of reviewing or collecting the account.
Reviewing the account includes activities related to account maintenance, monitoring, credit line
increases, and account upgrades and enhancements.".
(6) Webpage
(A) Consumer reporting agencies
A consumer reporting agency shall establish a webpage that—
(i) allows a consumer to request a security freeze;
(ii) allows a consumer to request an initial fraud alert;
(iii) allows a consumer to request an extended fraud alert;
(iv) allows a consumer to request an active duty fraud alert;

(v) allows a consumer to opt-out of the use of information in a consumer report to send
the consumer a solicitation of credit or insurance, in accordance with section 1681m(d) of
this title; and
(vi) shall not be the only mechanism by which a consumer may request a security
freeze.
(B) FTC
The Federal Trade Commission shall establish a single webpage that includes a link to
each webpage established under subparagraph (A) within the Federal Trade Commission's
website www.Identitytheft.gov, or a successor website.
(j) National protection for files and credit records of protected consumers
(1) Definitions
As used in this subsection:
(A) The term "consumer reporting agency" means a consumer reporting agency
described in section 1681a(p) of this title.
(B) The term "protected consumer" means an individual who is—
(i) under the age of 16 years at the time a request for the placement of a security
freeze is made; or
(ii) an incapacitated person or a protected person for whom a guardian or conservator
has been appointed.
(C) The term "protected consumer's representative" means a person who provides to a
consumer reporting agency sufficient proof of authority to act on behalf of a protected
consumer.
(D) The term "record" means a compilation of information that—
(i) identifies a protected consumer;
(ii) is created by a consumer reporting agency solely for the purpose of complying with
this subsection; and
(iii) may not be created or used to consider the protected consumer's credit worthiness,
credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or
mode of living.
(E) The term "security freeze" means a restriction that prohibits a consumer reporting
agency from disclosing the contents of a consumer report that is the subject of such
security freeze or, in the case of a protected consumer for whom the consumer reporting
agency does not have a file, a record that is subject to such security freeze to any person
requesting the consumer report for the purpose of opening a new account involving the
extension of credit.
(F) The term "sufficient proof of authority" means documentation that shows a protected
consumer's representative has authority to act on behalf of a protected consumer and
includes—
(i) an order issued by a court of law;
(ii) a lawfully executed and valid power of attorney;

(iii) a document issued by a Federal, State, or local government agency in the United
States showing proof of parentage, including a birth certificate; or
(iv) with respect to a protected consumer who has been placed in a foster care setting,
a written communication from a county welfare department or its agent or designee, or a
county probation department or its agent or designee, certifying that the protected
consumer is in a foster care setting under its jurisdiction.
(G) The term "sufficient proof of identification" means information or documentation that
identifies a protected consumer and a protected consumer's representative and includes—
(i) a social security number or a copy of a social security card issued by the Social
Security Administration;
(ii) a certified or official copy of a birth certificate issued by the entity authorized to issue
the birth certificate; or
(iii) a copy of a driver's license, an identification card issued by the motor vehicle
administration, or any other government issued identification.
(2) Placement of security freeze for a protected consumer
(A) In general
Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer's representative that a
consumer reporting agency place a security freeze, and upon receiving sufficient proof of
identification and sufficient proof of authority, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of
charge, place the security freeze not later than—
(i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1
business day after receiving the request directly from the protected consumer's
representative; or
(ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request
directly from the protected consumer's representative.
(B) Confirmation and additional information
Not later than 5 business days after placing a security freeze under subparagraph (A), a
consumer reporting agency shall—
(i) send confirmation of the placement to the protected consumer's representative; and
(ii) inform the protected consumer's representative of the process by which the
protected consumer may remove the security freeze, including a mechanism to
authenticate the protected consumer's representative.
(C) Creation of file
If a consumer reporting agency does not have a file pertaining to a protected consumer
when the consumer reporting agency receives a direct request under subparagraph (A), the
consumer reporting agency shall create a record for the protected consumer.
(3) Prohibition on release of record or file of protected consumer
After a security freeze has been placed under paragraph (2)(A), and unless the security
freeze is removed in accordance with this subsection, a consumer reporting agency may not
release the protected consumer's consumer report, any information derived from the
protected consumer's consumer report, or any record created for the protected consumer.

(4) Removal of a protected consumer security freeze
(A) In general
A consumer reporting agency shall remove a security freeze placed on the consumer
report of a protected consumer only in the following cases:
(i) Upon the direct request of the protected consumer's representative.
(ii) Upon the direct request of the protected consumer, if the protected consumer is not
under the age of 16 years at the time of the request.
(iii) The security freeze was placed due to a material misrepresentation of fact by the
protected consumer's representative.
(B) Notice if removal not by request
If a consumer reporting agency removes a security freeze under subparagraph (A)(iii),
the consumer reporting agency shall notify the protected consumer's representative in
writing prior to removing the security freeze.
(C) Removal of freeze by request
Except as provided in subparagraph (A)(iii), a security freeze shall remain in place until a
protected consumer's representative or protected consumer described in subparagraph
(A)(ii) directly requests that the security freeze be removed. Upon receiving a direct request
from the protected consumer's representative or protected consumer described in
subparagraph (A)(ii) that a consumer reporting agency remove a security freeze, and upon
receiving sufficient proof of identification and sufficient proof of authority, the consumer
reporting agency shall, free of charge, remove the security freeze not later than—
(i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1
hour after receiving the request for removal; or
(ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request
for removal.
(D) Temporary removal of security freeze
Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer or a protected consumer's
representative under subparagraph (A)(i), if the protected consumer or protected
consumer's representative requests a temporary removal of a security freeze, the
consumer reporting agency shall, in accordance with subparagraph (C), remove the
security freeze for the period of time specified by the protected consumer or protected
consumer's representative.
(k) Credit monitoring
(1) Definitions
In this subsection:
(A) The term "active duty military consumer" includes a member of the National Guard.
(B) The term "National Guard" has the meaning given the term in section 101(c) of title
10.
(2) Credit monitoring
A consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title shall provide a free
electronic credit monitoring service that, at a minimum, notifies a consumer of material

additions or modifications to the file of the consumer at the consumer reporting agency to any
consumer who provides to the consumer reporting agency—
(A) appropriate proof that the consumer is an active duty military consumer; and
(B) contact information of the consumer.
(3) Rulemaking
Not later than 1 year after May 24, 2018, the Federal Trade Commission shall promulgate
regulations regarding the requirements of this subsection, which shall at a minimum include—
(A) a definition of an electronic credit monitoring service and material additions or
modifications to the file of a consumer; and
(B) what constitutes appropriate proof.
(4) Applicability
(A) Sections 1681n and 1681o of this title shall not apply to any violation of this subsection.
(B) This subsection shall be enforced exclusively under section 1681s of this title by the
Federal agencies and Federal and State officials identified in that section.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §605A, as added Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §112(a), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1955; amended Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(C), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087;
Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §§301(a), 302(d)(1), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1326, 1334.)
References in Text
Section 1602(i) of this title, referred to in subsec. (h), was redesignated section 1602(j) of this
title by Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1100A(1)(A), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2107.
The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (i)(4)(C), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat.
620. Part D of title IV of the Act is classified generally to part D (§651 et seq.) of subchapter IV
of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to
the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.
Amendments
2018—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 115–174, §301(a)(1), substituted "1 year" for "90 days".
Subsecs. (i), (j). Pub. L. 115–174, §301(a)(2), added subsecs. (i) and (j).
Subsec. (k). Pub. L. 115–174, §302(d)(1), added subsec. (k).
2010—Subsecs. (c)(1), (g). Pub. L. 111–203 substituted "the Bureau" for "the Commission".
Effective Date of 2018 Amendment
Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §301(c), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1332, provided that: "The
amendments made by this section [amending this section and section 1681t of this title] shall
take effect on the date that is 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act [May 24, 2018]."
Amendment by section 302(d)(1) of Pub. L. 115–174 effective 1 year after May 24, 2018, see
section 302(e) of Pub. L. 115–174, set out as a note under section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date
Section subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal
Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see section 3 of
Pub. L. 108–159, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 1681 of
this title.
Regulations
Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §112(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1959, as amended by Pub. L.
111–203, title X, §1088(b)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2092, provided that: "The Bureau shall
prescribe regulations to define what constitutes appropriate proof of identity for purposes of
sections 605A , 605B, and 609(a)(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681c–1,
1681c–2, 1681g(a)(1)], as amended by this Act."
Public Campaign To Prevent Identity Theft
Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §151(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1964, provided that: "Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003], the Commission shall establish and
implement a media and distribution campaign to teach the public how to prevent identity theft.
Such campaign shall include existing Commission education materials, as well as radio,
television, and print public service announcements, video cassettes, interactive digital video
discs (DVD's) or compact audio discs (CD's), and Internet resources."
[For definitions of terms used in section 151(b) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]
1

See References in Text note below.

§1681c–2. Block of information resulting from identity theft
(a) Block
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a consumer reporting agency shall block the
reporting of any information in the file of a consumer that the consumer identifies as information
that resulted from an alleged identity theft, not later than 4 business days after the date of
receipt by such agency of—
(1) appropriate proof of the identity of the consumer;
(2) a copy of an identity theft report;
(3) the identification of such information by the consumer; and
(4) a statement by the consumer that the information is not information relating to any
transaction by the consumer.
(b) Notification
A consumer reporting agency shall promptly notify the furnisher of information identified by
the consumer under subsection (a)—

(1) that the information may be a result of identity theft;
(2) that an identity theft report has been filed;
(3) that a block has been requested under this section; and
(4) of the effective dates of the block.
(c) Authority to decline or rescind
(1) In general
A consumer reporting agency may decline to block, or may rescind any block, of
information relating to a consumer under this section, if the consumer reporting agency
reasonably determines that—
(A) the information was blocked in error or a block was requested by the consumer in
error;
(B) the information was blocked, or a block was requested by the consumer, on the basis
of a material misrepresentation of fact by the consumer relevant to the request to block; or
(C) the consumer obtained possession of goods, services, or money as a result of the
blocked transaction or transactions.
(2) Notification to consumer
If a block of information is declined or rescinded under this subsection, the affected
consumer shall be notified promptly, in the same manner as consumers are notified of the
reinsertion of information under section 1681i(a)(5)(B) of this title.
(3) Significance of block
For purposes of this subsection, if a consumer reporting agency rescinds a block, the
presence of information in the file of a consumer prior to the blocking of such information is
not evidence of whether the consumer knew or should have known that the consumer
obtained possession of any goods, services, or money as a result of the block.
(d) Exception for resellers
(1) No reseller file
This section shall not apply to a consumer reporting agency, if the consumer reporting
agency—
(A) is a reseller;
(B) is not, at the time of the request of the consumer under subsection (a), otherwise
furnishing or reselling a consumer report concerning the information identified by the
consumer; and
(C) informs the consumer, by any means, that the consumer may report the identity theft
to the Bureau to obtain consumer information regarding identity theft.
(2) Reseller with file
The sole obligation of the consumer reporting agency under this section, with regard to any
request of a consumer under this section, shall be to block the consumer report maintained by
the consumer reporting agency from any subsequent use, if—
(A) the consumer, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a), identifies, to a
consumer reporting agency, information in the file of the consumer that resulted from
identity theft; and

(B) the consumer reporting agency is a reseller of the identified information.
(3) Notice
In carrying out its obligation under paragraph (2), the reseller shall promptly provide a
notice to the consumer of the decision to block the file. Such notice shall contain the name,
address, and telephone number of each consumer reporting agency from which the consumer
information was obtained for resale.
(e) Exception for verification companies
The provisions of this section do not apply to a check services company, acting as such,
which issues authorizations for the purpose of approving or processing negotiable instruments,
electronic fund transfers, or similar methods of payments, except that, beginning 4 business
days after receipt of information described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a), a
check services company shall not report to a national consumer reporting agency described in
section 1681a(p) of this title, any information identified in the subject identity theft report as
resulting from identity theft.
(f) Access to blocked information by law enforcement agencies
No provision of this section shall be construed as requiring a consumer reporting agency to
prevent a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency from accessing blocked information
in a consumer file to which the agency could otherwise obtain access under this subchapter.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §605B, as added Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §152(a), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1964; amended Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(C), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087.)
Amendments
2010—Subsec. (d)(1)(C). Pub. L. 111–203 substituted "the Bureau" for "the Commission".
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date
Section subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal
Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see section 3 of
Pub. L. 108–159, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 1681 of
this title.

§1681d. Disclosure of investigative consumer reports
(a) Disclosure of fact of preparation
A person may not procure or cause to be prepared an investigative consumer report on any
consumer unless—
(1) it is clearly and accurately disclosed to the consumer that an investigative consumer
report including information as to his character, general reputation, personal characteristics,
and mode of living, whichever are applicable, may be made, and such disclosure (A) is made

in a writing mailed, or otherwise delivered, to the consumer, not later than three days after the
date on which the report was first requested, and (B) includes a statement informing the
consumer of his right to request the additional disclosures provided for under subsection (b)
of this section and the written summary of the rights of the consumer prepared pursuant to
section 1681g(c) of this title; and
(2) the person certifies or has certified to the consumer reporting agency that—
(A) the person has made the disclosures to the consumer required by paragraph (1); and
(B) the person will comply with subsection (b).
(b) Disclosure on request of nature and scope of investigation
Any person who procures or causes to be prepared an investigative consumer report on any
consumer shall, upon written request made by the consumer within a reasonable period of time
after the receipt by him of the disclosure required by subsection (a)(1), make a complete and
accurate disclosure of the nature and scope of the investigation requested. This disclosure shall
be made in a writing mailed, or otherwise delivered, to the consumer not later than five days
after the date on which the request for such disclosure was received from the consumer or such
report was first requested, whichever is the later.
(c) Limitation on liability upon showing of reasonable procedures for compliance with
provisions
No person may be held liable for any violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section if he
shows by a preponderance of the evidence that at the time of the violation he maintained
reasonable procedures to assure compliance with subsection (a) or (b).
(d) Prohibitions
(1) Certification
A consumer reporting agency shall not prepare or furnish an investigative consumer report
unless the agency has received a certification under subsection (a)(2) from the person who
requested the report.
(2) Inquiries
A consumer reporting agency shall not make an inquiry for the purpose of preparing an
investigative consumer report on a consumer for employment purposes if the making of the
inquiry by an employer or prospective employer of the consumer would violate any applicable
Federal or State equal employment opportunity law or regulation.
(3) Certain public record information
Except as otherwise provided in section 1681k of this title, a consumer reporting agency
shall not furnish an investigative consumer report that includes information that is a matter of
public record and that relates to an arrest, indictment, conviction, civil judicial action, tax lien,
or outstanding judgment, unless the agency has verified the accuracy of the information
during the 30-day period ending on the date on which the report is furnished.
(4) Certain adverse information
A consumer reporting agency shall not prepare or furnish an investigative consumer report
on a consumer that contains information that is adverse to the interest of the consumer and
that is obtained through a personal interview with a neighbor, friend, or associate of the

consumer or with another person with whom the consumer is acquainted or who has
knowledge of such item of information, unless—
(A) the agency has followed reasonable procedures to obtain confirmation of the
information, from an additional source that has independent and direct knowledge of the
information; or
(B) the person interviewed is the best possible source of the information.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §606, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1130; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §§2408(d)(2), 2414, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat.
3009–438, 3009-449.)
Amendments
1996—Subsec. (a)(1)(B). Pub. L. 104–208, §§2408(d)(2), 2414(1), inserted "and the written
summary of the rights of the consumer prepared pursuant to section 1681g(c) of this title" before
the semicolon and substituted "and" for "or" at end.
Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 104–208, §2414(2), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2)
which read as follows: "the report is to be used for employment purposes for which the
consumer has not specifically applied."
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2414(3), substituted ", make a complete" for ", shall make a
complete".
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2414(4), added subsec. (d).
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681e. Compliance procedures
(a) Identity and purposes of credit users
Every consumer reporting agency shall maintain reasonable procedures designed to avoid
violations of section 1681c of this title and to limit the furnishing of consumer reports to the
purposes listed under section 1681b of this title. These procedures shall require that prospective
users of the information identify themselves, certify the purposes for which the information is
sought, and certify that the information will be used for no other purpose. Every consumer
reporting agency shall make a reasonable effort to verify the identity of a new prospective user
and the uses certified by such prospective user prior to furnishing such user a consumer report.
No consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report to any person if it has reasonable

grounds for believing that the consumer report will not be used for a purpose listed in section
1681b of this title.
(b) Accuracy of report
Whenever a consumer reporting agency prepares a consumer report it shall follow
reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the
individual about whom the report relates.
(c) Disclosure of consumer reports by users allowed
A consumer reporting agency may not prohibit a user of a consumer report furnished by the
agency on a consumer from disclosing the contents of the report to the consumer, if adverse
action against the consumer has been taken by the user based in whole or in part on the report.
(d) Notice to users and furnishers of information
(1) Notice requirement
A consumer reporting agency shall provide to any person—
(A) who regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to the
agency with respect to any consumer; or
(B) to whom a consumer report is provided by the agency;
a notice of such person's responsibilities under this subchapter.
(2) Content of notice
The Bureau shall prescribe the content of notices under paragraph (1), and a consumer
reporting agency shall be in compliance with this subsection if it provides a notice under
paragraph (1) that is substantially similar to the Bureau prescription under this paragraph.
(e) Procurement of consumer report for resale
(1) Disclosure
A person may not procure a consumer report for purposes of reselling the report (or any
information in the report) unless the person discloses to the consumer reporting agency that
originally furnishes the report—
(A) the identity of the end-user of the report (or information); and
(B) each permissible purpose under section 1681b of this title for which the report is
furnished to the end-user of the report (or information).
(2) Responsibilities of procurers for resale
A person who procures a consumer report for purposes of reselling the report (or any
information in the report) shall—
(A) establish and comply with reasonable procedures designed to ensure that the report
(or information) is resold by the person only for a purpose for which the report may be
furnished under section 1681b of this title, including by requiring that each person to which
the report (or information) is resold and that resells or provides the report (or information) to
any other person—
(i) identifies each end user of the resold report (or information);
(ii) certifies each purpose for which the report (or information) will be used; and
(iii) certifies that the report (or information) will be used for no other purpose; and

(B) before reselling the report, make reasonable efforts to verify the identifications and
certifications made under subparagraph (A).
(3) Resale of consumer report to a Federal agency or department
Notwithstanding paragraph (1) or (2), a person who procures a consumer report for
purposes of reselling the report (or any information in the report) shall not disclose the identity
of the end-user of the report under paragraph (1) or (2) if—
(A) the end user is an agency or department of the United States Government which
procures the report from the person for purposes of determining the eligibility of the
consumer concerned to receive access or continued access to classified information (as
defined in section 1681b(b)(4)(E)(i) 1 of this title); and
(B) the agency or department certifies in writing to the person reselling the report that
nondisclosure is necessary to protect classified information or the safety of persons
employed by or contracting with, or undergoing investigation for work or contracting with the
agency or department.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §607, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1130; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2407, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–435;
Pub. L. 105–107, title III, §311(b), Nov. 20, 1997, 111 Stat. 2256; Pub. L. 111–203, title X,
§1088(a)(2)(A), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087.)
References in Text
Section 1681b(b)(4) of this title, referred to in subsec. (e)(3)(A), was subsequently amended,
and section 1681b(b)(4)(E) no longer defines the term "classified information". However, such
term is defined elsewhere in that section.
Amendments
2010—Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 111–203 substituted "Bureau" for "Federal Trade Commission"
in two places.
1997—Subsec. (e)(3). Pub. L. 105–107 added par. (3).
1996—Subsecs. (c) to (e). Pub. L. 104–208 added subsecs. (c) to (e).
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 1997 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–107 effective as if included in chapter 1 of subtitle D of the
Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104–208, as of
Sept. 30, 1996, see section 311(c) of Pub. L. 105–107, set out as a note under section 1681b of
this title.
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
1

See References in Text note below.

§1681f. Disclosures to governmental agencies
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1681b of this title, a consumer reporting agency
may furnish identifying information respecting any consumer, limited to his name, address,
former addresses, places of employment, or former places of employment, to a governmental
agency.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §608, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1131.)
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681g. Disclosures to consumers
(a) Information on file; sources; report recipients
Every consumer reporting agency shall, upon request, and subject to section 1681h(a)(1) of
this title, clearly and accurately disclose to the consumer:
(1) All information in the consumer's file at the time of the request, except that—
(A) if the consumer to whom the file relates requests that the first 5 digits of the social
security number (or similar identification number) of the consumer not be included in the
disclosure and the consumer reporting agency has received appropriate proof of the identity
of the requester, the consumer reporting agency shall so truncate such number in such
disclosure; and
(B) nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require a consumer reporting agency to
disclose to a consumer any information concerning credit scores or any other risk scores or
predictors relating to the consumer.
(2) The sources of the information; except that the sources of information acquired solely for
use in preparing an investigative consumer report and actually used for no other purpose need
not be disclosed: Provided, That in the event an action is brought under this subchapter, such

sources shall be available to the plaintiff under appropriate discovery procedures in the court in
which the action is brought.
(3)(A) Identification of each person (including each end-user identified under section
1681e(e)(1) of this title) that procured a consumer report—
(i) for employment purposes, during the 2-year period preceding the date on which the
request is made; or
(ii) for any other purpose, during the 1-year period preceding the date on which the request
is made.
(B) An identification of a person under subparagraph (A) shall include—
(i) the name of the person or, if applicable, the trade name (written in full) under which such
person conducts business; and
(ii) upon request of the consumer, the address and telephone number of the person.
(C) Subparagraph (A) does not apply if—
(i) the end user is an agency or department of the United States Government that procures
the report from the person for purposes of determining the eligibility of the consumer to whom
the report relates to receive access or continued access to classified information (as defined
in section 1681b(b)(4)(E)(i) 1 of this title); and
(ii) the head of the agency or department makes a written finding as prescribed under
section 1681b(b)(4)(A) of this title.
(4) The dates, original payees, and amounts of any checks upon which is based any adverse
characterization of the consumer, included in the file at the time of the disclosure.
(5) A record of all inquiries received by the agency during the 1-year period preceding the
request that identified the consumer in connection with a credit or insurance transaction that
was not initiated by the consumer.
(6) If the consumer requests the credit file and not the credit score, a statement that the
consumer may request and obtain a credit score.
(b) Exempt information
The requirements of subsection (a) respecting the disclosure of sources of information and
the recipients of consumer reports do not apply to information received or consumer reports
furnished prior to the effective date of this subchapter except to the extent that the matter
involved is contained in the files of the consumer reporting agency on that date.
(c) Summary of rights to obtain and dispute information in consumer reports and to
obtain credit scores
(1) Commission 2 summary of rights required
(A) In general
The Commission 2 shall prepare a model summary of the rights of consumers under this
subchapter.
(B) Content of summary
The summary of rights prepared under subparagraph (A) shall include a description of—

(i) the right of a consumer to obtain a copy of a consumer report under subsection (a)
from each consumer reporting agency;
(ii) the frequency and circumstances under which a consumer is entitled to receive a
consumer report without charge under section 1681j of this title;
(iii) the right of a consumer to dispute information in the file of the consumer under
section 1681i of this title;
(iv) the right of a consumer to obtain a credit score from a consumer reporting agency,
and a description of how to obtain a credit score;
(v) the method by which a consumer can contact, and obtain a consumer report from, a
consumer reporting agency without charge, as provided in the regulations of the Bureau
prescribed under section 211(c) 1 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of
2003; and
(vi) the method by which a consumer can contact, and obtain a consumer report from,
a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(w) 1 of this title, as provided in
the regulations of the Bureau prescribed under section 1681j(a)(1)(C) of this title.
(C) Availability of summary of rights
The Commission 2 shall—
(i) actively publicize the availability of the summary of rights prepared under this
paragraph;
(ii) conspicuously post on its Internet website the availability of such summary of rights;
and
(iii) promptly make such summary of rights available to consumers, on request.
(2) Summary of rights required to be included with agency disclosures
A consumer reporting agency shall provide to a consumer, with each written disclosure by
the agency to the consumer under this section—
(A) the summary of rights prepared by the Bureau under paragraph (1);
(B) in the case of a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title,
a toll-free telephone number established by the agency, at which personnel are accessible
to consumers during normal business hours;
(C) a list of all Federal agencies responsible for enforcing any provision of this
subchapter, and the address and any appropriate phone number of each such agency, in a
form that will assist the consumer in selecting the appropriate agency;
(D) a statement that the consumer may have additional rights under State law, and that
the consumer may wish to contact a State or local consumer protection agency or a State
attorney general (or the equivalent thereof) to learn of those rights; and
(E) a statement that a consumer reporting agency is not required to remove accurate
derogatory information from the file of a consumer, unless the information is outdated under
section 1681c of this titleor cannot be verified.
(d) Summary of rights of identity theft victims
(1) In general
The Commission,2 in consultation with the Federal banking agencies and the National
Credit Union Administration, shall prepare a model summary of the rights of consumers under

this subchapter with respect to the procedures for remedying the effects of fraud or identity
theft involving credit, an electronic fund transfer, or an account or transaction at or with a
financial institution or other creditor.
(2) Summary of rights and contact information
Beginning 60 days after the date on which the model summary of rights is prescribed in
final form by the Bureau pursuant to paragraph (1), if any consumer contacts a consumer
reporting agency and expresses a belief that the consumer is a victim of fraud or identity theft
involving credit, an electronic fund transfer, or an account or transaction at or with a financial
institution or other creditor, the consumer reporting agency shall, in addition to any other
action that the agency may take, provide the consumer with a summary of rights that contains
all of the information required by the Bureau under paragraph (1), and information on how to
contact the Bureau to obtain more detailed information.
(e) Information available to victims
(1) In general
For the purpose of documenting fraudulent transactions resulting from identity theft, not
later than 30 days after the date of receipt of a request from a victim in accordance with
paragraph (3), and subject to verification of the identity of the victim and the claim of identity
theft in accordance with paragraph (2), a business entity that has provided credit to, provided
for consideration products, goods, or services to, accepted payment from, or otherwise
entered into a commercial transaction for consideration with, a person who has allegedly
made unauthorized use of the means of identification of the victim, shall provide a copy of
application and business transaction records in the control of the business entity, whether
maintained by the business entity or by another person on behalf of the business entity,
evidencing any transaction alleged to be a result of identity theft to—
(A) the victim;
(B) any Federal, State, or local government law enforcement agency or officer specified
by the victim in such a request; or
(C) any law enforcement agency investigating the identity theft and authorized by the
victim to take receipt of records provided under this subsection.
(2) Verification of identity and claim
Before a business entity provides any information under paragraph (1), unless the business
entity, at its discretion, otherwise has a high degree of confidence that it knows the identity of
the victim making a request under paragraph (1), the victim shall provide to the business
entity—
(A) as proof of positive identification of the victim, at the election of the business entity—
(i) the presentation of a government-issued identification card;
(ii) personally identifying information of the same type as was provided to the business
entity by the unauthorized person; or
(iii) personally identifying information that the business entity typically requests from
new applicants or for new transactions, at the time of the victim's request for information,
including any documentation described in clauses (i) and (ii); and

(B) as proof of a claim of identity theft, at the election of the business entity—
(i) a copy of a police report evidencing the claim of the victim of identity theft; and
(ii) a properly completed—
(I) copy of a standardized affidavit of identity theft developed and made available by
the Bureau; or
(II) an 3 affidavit of fact that is acceptable to the business entity for that purpose.
(3) Procedures
The request of a victim under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) be in writing;
(B) be mailed to an address specified by the business entity, if any; and
(C) if asked by the business entity, include relevant information about any transaction
alleged to be a result of identity theft to facilitate compliance with this section including—
(i) if known by the victim (or if readily obtainable by the victim), the date of the
application or transaction; and
(ii) if known by the victim (or if readily obtainable by the victim), any other identifying
information such as an account or transaction number.
(4) No charge to victim
Information required to be provided under paragraph (1) shall be so provided without
charge.
(5) Authority to decline to provide information
A business entity may decline to provide information under paragraph (1) if, in the exercise
of good faith, the business entity determines that—
(A) this subsection does not require disclosure of the information;
(B) after reviewing the information provided pursuant to paragraph (2), the business
entity does not have a high degree of confidence in knowing the true identity of the
individual requesting the information;
(C) the request for the information is based on a misrepresentation of fact by the
individual requesting the information relevant to the request for information; or
(D) the information requested is Internet navigational data or similar information about a
person's visit to a website or online service.
(6) Limitation on liability
Except as provided in section 1681s of this title, sections 1681n and 1681o of this title do
not apply to any violation of this subsection.
(7) Limitation on civil liability
No business entity may be held civilly liable under any provision of Federal, State, or other
law for disclosure, made in good faith pursuant to this subsection.
(8) No new recordkeeping obligation
Nothing in this subsection creates an obligation on the part of a business entity to obtain,
retain, or maintain information or records that are not otherwise required to be obtained,
retained, or maintained in the ordinary course of its business or under other applicable law.
(9) Rule of construction

(A) In general
No provision of subtitle A of title V of Public Law 106–102 [15 U.S.C. 6801 et seq.],
prohibiting the disclosure of financial information by a business entity to third parties shall
be used to deny disclosure of information to the victim under this subsection.
(B) Limitation
Except as provided in subparagraph (A), nothing in this subsection permits a business
entity to disclose information, including information to law enforcement under
subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1), that the business entity is otherwise prohibited
from disclosing under any other applicable provision of Federal or State law.
(10) Affirmative defense
In any civil action brought to enforce this subsection, it is an affirmative defense (which the
defendant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence) for a business entity to file an
affidavit or answer stating that—
(A) the business entity has made a reasonably diligent search of its available business
records; and
(B) the records requested under this subsection do not exist or are not reasonably
available.
(11) Definition of victim
For purposes of this subsection, the term "victim" means a consumer whose means of
identification or financial information has been used or transferred (or has been alleged to
have been used or transferred) without the authority of that consumer, with the intent to
commit, or to aid or abet, an identity theft or a similar crime.
(12) Effective date
This subsection shall become effective 180 days after December 4, 2003.
(13) Effectiveness study
Not later than 18 months after December 4, 2003, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit a report to Congress assessing the effectiveness of this provision.
(f) Disclosure of credit scores
(1) In general
Upon the request of a consumer for a credit score, a consumer reporting agency shall
supply to the consumer a statement indicating that the information and credit scoring model
may be different than the credit score that may be used by the lender, and a notice which
shall include—
(A) the current credit score of the consumer or the most recent credit score of the
consumer that was previously calculated by the credit reporting agency for a purpose
related to the extension of credit;
(B) the range of possible credit scores under the model used;
(C) all of the key factors that adversely affected the credit score of the consumer in the
model used, the total number of which shall not exceed 4, subject to paragraph (9);
(D) the date on which the credit score was created; and

(E) the name of the person or entity that provided the credit score or credit file upon
which the credit score was created.
(2) Definitions
For purposes of this subsection, the following definitions shall apply:
(A) Credit score
The term "credit score"—
(i) means a numerical value or a categorization derived from a statistical tool or
modeling system used by a person who makes or arranges a loan to predict the
likelihood of certain credit behaviors, including default (and the numerical value or the
categorization derived from such analysis may also be referred to as a "risk predictor" or
"risk score"); and
(ii) does not include—
(I) any mortgage score or rating of an automated underwriting system that considers
one or more factors in addition to credit information, including the loan to value ratio,
the amount of down payment, or the financial assets of a consumer; or
(II) any other elements of the underwriting process or underwriting decision.
(B) Key factors
The term "key factors" means all relevant elements or reasons adversely affecting the
credit score for the particular individual, listed in the order of their importance based on their
effect on the credit score.
(3) Timeframe and manner of disclosure
The information required by this subsection shall be provided in the same timeframe and
manner as the information described in subsection (a).
(4) Applicability to certain uses
This subsection shall not be construed so as to compel a consumer reporting agency to
develop or disclose a score if the agency does not—
(A) distribute scores that are used in connection with residential real property loans; or
(B) develop scores that assist credit providers in understanding the general credit
behavior of a consumer and predicting the future credit behavior of the consumer.
(5) Applicability to credit scores developed by another person
(A) In general
This subsection shall not be construed to require a consumer reporting agency that
distributes credit scores developed by another person or entity to provide a further
explanation of them, or to process a dispute arising pursuant to section 1681i of this title,
except that the consumer reporting agency shall provide the consumer with the name and
address and website for contacting the person or entity who developed the score or
developed the methodology of the score.
(B) Exception
This paragraph shall not apply to a consumer reporting agency that develops or modifies
scores that are developed by another person or entity.

(6) Maintenance of credit scores not required
This subsection shall not be construed to require a consumer reporting agency to maintain
credit scores in its files.
(7) Compliance in certain cases
In complying with this subsection, a consumer reporting agency shall—
(A) supply the consumer with a credit score that is derived from a credit scoring model
that is widely distributed to users by that consumer reporting agency in connection with
residential real property loans or with a credit score that assists the consumer in
understanding the credit scoring assessment of the credit behavior of the consumer and
predictions about the future credit behavior of the consumer; and
(B) a statement indicating that the information and credit scoring model may be different
than that used by the lender.
(8) Fair and reasonable fee
A consumer reporting agency may charge a fair and reasonable fee, as determined by the
Bureau, for providing the information required under this subsection.
(9) Use of enquiries as a key factor
If a key factor that adversely affects the credit score of a consumer consists of the number
of enquiries made with respect to a consumer report, that factor shall be included in the
disclosure pursuant to paragraph (1)(C) without regard to the numerical limitation in such
paragraph.
(g) Disclosure of credit scores by certain mortgage lenders
(1) In general
Any person who makes or arranges loans and who uses a consumer credit score, as
defined in subsection (f), in connection with an application initiated or sought by a consumer
for a closed end loan or the establishment of an open end loan for a consumer purpose that is
secured by 1 to 4 units of residential real property (hereafter in this subsection referred to as
the "lender") shall provide the following to the consumer as soon as reasonably practicable:
(A) Information required under subsection (f)
(i) In general
A copy of the information identified in subsection (f) that was obtained from a consumer
reporting agency or was developed and used by the user of the information.
(ii) Notice under subparagraph (D)
In addition to the information provided to it by a third party that provided the credit
score or scores, a lender is only required to provide the notice contained in subparagraph
(D).
(B) Disclosures in case of automated underwriting system
(i) In general
If a person that is subject to this subsection uses an automated underwriting system to
underwrite a loan, that person may satisfy the obligation to provide a credit score by

disclosing a credit score and associated key factors supplied by a consumer reporting
agency.
(ii) Numerical credit score
However, if a numerical credit score is generated by an automated underwriting system
used by an enterprise, and that score is disclosed to the person, the score shall be
disclosed to the consumer consistent with subparagraph (C).
(iii) Enterprise defined
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term "enterprise" has the same meaning as in
paragraph (6) of section 4502 of title 12.
(C) Disclosures of credit scores not obtained from a consumer reporting agency
A person that is subject to the provisions of this subsection and that uses a credit score,
other than a credit score provided by a consumer reporting agency, may satisfy the
obligation to provide a credit score by disclosing a credit score and associated key factors
supplied by a consumer reporting agency.
(D) Notice to home loan applicants
A copy of the following notice, which shall include the name, address, and telephone
number of each consumer reporting agency providing a credit score that was used:

"notice to the home loan applicant
"In connection with your application for a home loan, the lender must disclose to you the
score that a consumer reporting agency distributed to users and the lender used in connection
with your home loan, and the key factors affecting your credit scores.
"The credit score is a computer generated summary calculated at the time of the request and
based on information that a consumer reporting agency or lender has on file. The scores are
based on data about your credit history and payment patterns. Credit scores are important
because they are used to assist the lender in determining whether you will obtain a loan. They
may also be used to determine what interest rate you may be offered on the mortgage. Credit
scores can change over time, depending on your conduct, how your credit history and payment
patterns change, and how credit scoring technologies change.
"Because the score is based on information in your credit history, it is very important that you
review the credit-related information that is being furnished to make sure it is accurate. Credit
records may vary from one company to another.
"If you have questions about your credit score or the credit information that is furnished to
you, contact the consumer reporting agency at the address and telephone number provided with
this notice, or contact the lender, if the lender developed or generated the credit score. The
consumer reporting agency plays no part in the decision to take any action on the loan
application and is unable to provide you with specific reasons for the decision on a loan
application.
"If you have questions concerning the terms of the loan, contact the lender.".
(E) Actions not required under this subsection

This subsection shall not require any person to—
(i) explain the information provided pursuant to subsection (f);
(ii) disclose any information other than a credit score or key factors, as defined in
subsection (f);
(iii) disclose any credit score or related information obtained by the user after a loan
has closed;
(iv) provide more than 1 disclosure per loan transaction; or
(v) provide the disclosure required by this subsection when another person has made
the disclosure to the consumer for that loan transaction.
(F) No obligation for content
(i) In general
The obligation of any person pursuant to this subsection shall be limited solely to
providing a copy of the information that was received from the consumer reporting
agency.
(ii) Limit on liability
No person has liability under this subsection for the content of that information or for
the omission of any information within the report provided by the consumer reporting
agency.
(G) Person defined as excluding enterprise
As used in this subsection, the term "person" does not include an enterprise (as defined
in paragraph (6) of section 4502 of title 12).
(2) Prohibition on disclosure clauses null and void
(A) In general
Any provision in a contract that prohibits the disclosure of a credit score by a person who
makes or arranges loans or a consumer reporting agency is void.
(B) No liability for disclosure under this subsection
A lender shall not have liability under any contractual provision for disclosure of a credit
score pursuant to this subsection.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §609, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1131; amended Pub. L. 103–325, title III, §339, Sept. 23, 1994, 108 Stat. 2237; Pub. L.
104–208, div. A, title II, §2408(a)–(d)(1), (e)(5)(A), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–436,
3009-437, 3009-439; Pub. L. 105–347, §4(a), Nov. 2, 1998, 112 Stat. 3210; Pub. L. 108–159,
title I, §§115, 151(a)(1), title II, §§211(c), 212(a)–(c), title VIII, §811(d), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat.
1961, 1970, 1973-1975, 2011; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(C), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
2087.)
References in Text
Section 1681b(b)(4) of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(3)(C)(i), was subsequently
amended, and section 1681b(b)(4)(E) no longer defines the term "classified information".
However, such term is defined elsewhere in that section.

For the effective date of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (b), see section 504(d) of Pub.
L. 90–321, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1681 of this title.
Section 211(c) of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, referred to in subsec.
(c)(1)(B)(v), probably means section 211(d) of Pub. L. 108–159, which is set out as a note under
section 1681j of this title and relates to the promulgation of regulations. Section 211(c) of Pub. L.
108–159 amended this section.
Section 1681a(w) of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(1)(B)(vi), was redesignated section
1681a(x) of this title by Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2086.
Public Law 106–102, referred to in subsec. (e)(9)(A), is Pub. L. 106–102, Nov. 12, 1999, 113
Stat. 1338, as amended, known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Subtitle A of title V of the Act is
classified principally to subchapter I (§ 6801 et seq.) of chapter 94 of this title. For complete
classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1999 Amendment note set out under
section 1811 of Title 12, Banks and Banking, and Tables.
Amendments
2010—Pub. L. 111–203 substituted "the Bureau" for "the Commission" wherever appearing.
2003—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 108–159, §115, substituted "except that—
"(A) if the consumer to whom the file relates requests that the first 5 digits of the social
security number (or similar identification number) of the consumer not be included in the
disclosure and the consumer reporting agency has received appropriate proof of the identity
of the requester, the consumer reporting agency shall so truncate such number in such
disclosure; and
"(B) nothing"
for "except that nothing".
Subsec. (a)(2), (3)(C). Pub. L. 108–159, §811(d), realigned margins.
Subsec. (a)(6). Pub. L. 108–159, §212(a), added par. (6).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 108–159, §211(c), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment,
subsec. (c) related to the summary of rights required to be included with disclosure to
consumers by consumer reporting agencies.
Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 108–159, §151(a)(1), added subsecs. (d) and (e).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–159, §212(b), added subsec. (f).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–159, §212(c), added subsec. (g).
1998—Subsec. (a)(3)(C). Pub. L. 105–347 added subpar. (C).
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(e)(5)(A), in introductory provisions substituted ",
and subject to section 1681h(a)(1) of this title" for "and proper identification of any consumer".

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(a), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment,
par. (1) read as follows: "The nature and substance of all information (except medical
information) in its files on the consumer at the time of the request."
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(b), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment,
par. (3) read as follows: "The recipients of any consumer report on the consumer which it has
furnished—
"(A) for employment purposes within the two-year period preceding the request, and
"(B) for any other purpose within the six-month period preceding the request."
Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(c), added par. (5).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(d)(1), added subsec. (c).
1994—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 103–325 added par. (4).
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–347 deemed to have same effective date as amendments made
by section 2403 of Pub. L. 104–208, see section 7 of Pub. L. 105–347, set out as a note under
section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Simplified Disclosure To Maximize Comprehensibility and Standardization
Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2408(e)(2), (3), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–438,
3009-439, provided that:
"(2) Simplified disclosure.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act
[Sept. 30, 1996], each consumer reporting agency shall develop a form on which such

consumer reporting agency shall make the disclosures required under section 609(a) of the Fair
Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681g(a)], for the purpose of maximizing the comprehensibility
and standardization of such disclosures.
"(3) Goals.—The Federal Trade Commission shall take appropriate action to assure that the
goals of comprehensibility and standardization are achieved in accordance with paragraph (2)."
1

See References in Text note below.

2

So in original. Probably should be "Bureau".

3

So in original. The word "an" probably should not appear.

§1681h. Conditions and form of disclosure to consumers
(a) In general
(1) Proper identification
A consumer reporting agency shall require, as a condition of making the disclosures
required under section 1681g of this title, that the consumer furnish proper identification.
(2) Disclosure in writing
Except as provided in subsection (b), the disclosures required to be made under section
1681g of this title shall be provided under that section in writing.
(b) Other forms of disclosure
(1) In general
If authorized by a consumer, a consumer reporting agency may make the disclosures
required under 1 1681g of this title—
(A) other than in writing; and
(B) in such form as may be—
(i) specified by the consumer in accordance with paragraph (2); and
(ii) available from the agency.
(2) Form
A consumer may specify pursuant to paragraph (1) that disclosures under section 1681g of
this title shall be made—
(A) in person, upon the appearance of the consumer at the place of business of the
consumer reporting agency where disclosures are regularly provided, during normal
business hours, and on reasonable notice;
(B) by telephone, if the consumer has made a written request for disclosure by
telephone;
(C) by electronic means, if available from the agency; or
(D) by any other reasonable means that is available from the agency.
(c) Trained personnel

Any consumer reporting agency shall provide trained personnel to explain to the consumer
any information furnished to him pursuant to section 1681g of this title.
(d) Persons accompanying consumer
The consumer shall be permitted to be accompanied by one other person of his choosing,
who shall furnish reasonable identification. A consumer reporting agency may require the
consumer to furnish a written statement granting permission to the consumer reporting agency
to discuss the consumer's file in such person's presence.
(e) Limitation of liability
Except as provided in sections 1681n and 1681o of this title, no consumer may bring any
action or proceeding in the nature of defamation, invasion of privacy, or negligence with respect
to the reporting of information against any consumer reporting agency, any user of information,
or any person who furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency, based on information
disclosed pursuant to section 1681g, 1681h, or 1681m of this title, or based on information
disclosed by a user of a consumer report to or for a consumer against whom the user has taken
adverse action, based in whole or in part on the report 2except as to false information furnished
with malice or willful intent to injure such consumer.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §610, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1131; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2408(e)(1), (4), (5)(B), Sept. 30, 1996, 110
Stat. 3009–438, 3009-439.)
Amendments
1996—Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(e)(5)(B), inserted "and form" after "Conditions" in section
catchline.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(e)(1), inserted heading and amended text of subsec. (a)
generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "A consumer reporting agency shall make
the disclosures required under section 1681g of this title during normal business hours and on
reasonable notice."
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(e)(1), inserted heading and amended text of subsec. (b)
generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The disclosures required under section
1681g of this title shall be made to the consumer—
"(1) in person if he appears in person and furnishes proper identification; or
"(2) by telephone if he has made a written request, with proper identification, for
telephone disclosure and the toll charge, if any, for the telephone call is prepaid by or charged
directly to the consumer."
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 104–208, §2408(e)(4), inserted "or based on information disclosed by a
user of a consumer report to or for a consumer against whom the user has taken adverse
action, based in whole or in part on the report" before "except".
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
1

So in original. Probably should be followed by "section".

2

So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.

§1681i. Procedure in case of disputed accuracy
(a) Reinvestigations of disputed information
(1) Reinvestigation required
(A) In general
Subject to subsection (f) and except as provided in subsection (g), if the completeness or
accuracy of any item of information contained in a consumer's file at a consumer reporting
agency is disputed by the consumer and the consumer notifies the agency directly, or
indirectly through a reseller, of such dispute, the agency shall, free of charge, conduct a
reasonable reinvestigation to determine whether the disputed information is inaccurate and
record the current status of the disputed information, or delete the item from the file in
accordance with paragraph (5), before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date
on which the agency receives the notice of the dispute from the consumer or reseller.
(B) Extension of period to reinvestigate
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the 30-day period described in subparagraph
(A) may be extended for not more than 15 additional days if the consumer reporting agency
receives information from the consumer during that 30-day period that is relevant to the
reinvestigation.
(C) Limitations on extension of period to reinvestigate
Subparagraph (B) shall not apply to any reinvestigation in which, during the 30-day
period described in subparagraph (A), the information that is the subject of the
reinvestigation is found to be inaccurate or incomplete or the consumer reporting agency
determines that the information cannot be verified.
(2) Prompt notice of dispute to furnisher of information
(A) In general
Before the expiration of the 5-business-day period beginning on the date on which a
consumer reporting agency receives notice of a dispute from any consumer or a reseller in
accordance with paragraph (1), the agency shall provide notification of the dispute to any
person who provided any item of information in dispute, at the address and in the manner

established with the person. The notice shall include all relevant information regarding the
dispute that the agency has received from the consumer or reseller.
(B) Provision of other information
The consumer reporting agency shall promptly provide to the person who provided the
information in dispute all relevant information regarding the dispute that is received by the
agency from the consumer or the reseller after the period referred to in subparagraph (A)
and before the end of the period referred to in paragraph (1)(A).
(3) Determination that dispute is frivolous or irrelevant
(A) In general
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a consumer reporting agency may terminate a
reinvestigation of information disputed by a consumer under that paragraph if the agency
reasonably determines that the dispute by the consumer is frivolous or irrelevant, including
by reason of a failure by a consumer to provide sufficient information to investigate the
disputed information.
(B) Notice of determination
Upon making any determination in accordance with subparagraph (A) that a dispute is
frivolous or irrelevant, a consumer reporting agency shall notify the consumer of such
determination not later than 5 business days after making such determination, by mail or, if
authorized by the consumer for that purpose, by any other means available to the agency.
(C) Contents of notice
A notice under subparagraph (B) shall include—
(i) the reasons for the determination under subparagraph (A); and
(ii) identification of any information required to investigate the disputed information,
which may consist of a standardized form describing the general nature of such
information.
(4) Consideration of consumer information
In conducting any reinvestigation under paragraph (1) with respect to disputed information
in the file of any consumer, the consumer reporting agency shall review and consider all
relevant information submitted by the consumer in the period described in paragraph (1)(A)
with respect to such disputed information.
(5) Treatment of inaccurate or unverifiable information
(A) In general
If, after any reinvestigation under paragraph (1) of any information disputed by a
consumer, an item of the information is found to be inaccurate or incomplete or cannot be
verified, the consumer reporting agency shall—
(i) promptly delete that item of information from the file of the consumer, or modify that
item of information, as appropriate, based on the results of the reinvestigation; and
(ii) promptly notify the furnisher of that information that the information has been
modified or deleted from the file of the consumer.
(B) Requirements relating to reinsertion of previously deleted material

(i) Certification of accuracy of information
If any information is deleted from a consumer's file pursuant to subparagraph (A), the
information may not be reinserted in the file by the consumer reporting agency unless the
person who furnishes the information certifies that the information is complete and
accurate.
(ii) Notice to consumer
If any information that has been deleted from a consumer's file pursuant to
subparagraph (A) is reinserted in the file, the consumer reporting agency shall notify the
consumer of the reinsertion in writing not later than 5 business days after the reinsertion
or, if authorized by the consumer for that purpose, by any other means available to the
agency.
(iii) Additional information
As part of, or in addition to, the notice under clause (ii), a consumer reporting agency
shall provide to a consumer in writing not later than 5 business days after the date of the
reinsertion—
(I) a statement that the disputed information has been reinserted;
(II) the business name and address of any furnisher of information contacted and the
telephone number of such furnisher, if reasonably available, or of any furnisher of
information that contacted the consumer reporting agency, in connection with the
reinsertion of such information; and
(III) a notice that the consumer has the right to add a statement to the consumer's file
disputing the accuracy or completeness of the disputed information.
(C) Procedures to prevent reappearance
A consumer reporting agency shall maintain reasonable procedures designed to prevent
the reappearance in a consumer's file, and in consumer reports on the consumer, of
information that is deleted pursuant to this paragraph (other than information that is
reinserted in accordance with subparagraph (B)(i)).
(D) Automated reinvestigation system
Any consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a
nationwide basis shall implement an automated system through which furnishers of
information to that consumer reporting agency may report the results of a reinvestigation
that finds incomplete or inaccurate information in a consumer's file to other such consumer
reporting agencies.
(6) Notice of results of reinvestigation
(A) In general
A consumer reporting agency shall provide written notice to a consumer of the results of
a reinvestigation under this subsection not later than 5 business days after the completion
of the reinvestigation, by mail or, if authorized by the consumer for that purpose, by other
means available to the agency.
(B) Contents

As part of, or in addition to, the notice under subparagraph (A), a consumer reporting
agency shall provide to a consumer in writing before the expiration of the 5-day period
referred to in subparagraph (A)—
(i) a statement that the reinvestigation is completed;
(ii) a consumer report that is based upon the consumer's file as that file is revised as a
result of the reinvestigation;
(iii) a notice that, if requested by the consumer, a description of the procedure used to
determine the accuracy and completeness of the information shall be provided to the
consumer by the agency, including the business name and address of any furnisher of
information contacted in connection with such information and the telephone number of
such furnisher, if reasonably available;
(iv) a notice that the consumer has the right to add a statement to the consumer's file
disputing the accuracy or completeness of the information; and
(v) a notice that the consumer has the right to request under subsection (d) that the
consumer reporting agency furnish notifications under that subsection.
(7) Description of reinvestigation procedure
A consumer reporting agency shall provide to a consumer a description referred to in
paragraph (6)(B)(iii) by not later than 15 days after receiving a request from the consumer for
that description.
(8) Expedited dispute resolution
If a dispute regarding an item of information in a consumer's file at a consumer reporting
agency is resolved in accordance with paragraph (5)(A) by the deletion of the disputed
information by not later than 3 business days after the date on which the agency receives
notice of the dispute from the consumer in accordance with paragraph (1)(A), then the agency
shall not be required to comply with paragraphs (2), (6), and (7) with respect to that dispute if
the agency—
(A) provides prompt notice of the deletion to the consumer by telephone;
(B) includes in that notice, or in a written notice that accompanies a confirmation and
consumer report provided in accordance with subparagraph (C), a statement of the
consumer's right to request under subsection (d) that the agency furnish notifications under
that subsection; and
(C) provides written confirmation of the deletion and a copy of a consumer report on the
consumer that is based on the consumer's file after the deletion, not later than 5 business
days after making the deletion.
(b) Statement of dispute
If the reinvestigation does not resolve the dispute, the consumer may file a brief statement
setting forth the nature of the dispute. The consumer reporting agency may limit such
statements to not more than one hundred words if it provides the consumer with assistance in
writing a clear summary of the dispute.
(c) Notification of consumer dispute in subsequent consumer reports
Whenever a statement of a dispute is filed, unless there is reasonable grounds to believe that
it is frivolous or irrelevant, the consumer reporting agency shall, in any subsequent consumer

report containing the information in question, clearly note that it is disputed by the consumer and
provide either the consumer's statement or a clear and accurate codification or summary
thereof.
(d) Notification of deletion of disputed information
Following any deletion of information which is found to be inaccurate or whose accuracy can
no longer be verified or any notation as to disputed information, the consumer reporting agency
shall, at the request of the consumer, furnish notification that the item has been deleted or the
statement, codification or summary pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) to any person specifically
designated by the consumer who has within two years prior thereto received a consumer report
for employment purposes, or within six months prior thereto received a consumer report for any
other purpose, which contained the deleted or disputed information.
(e) Treatment of complaints and report to Congress
(1) In general
The Commission 1 shall—
(A) compile all complaints that it receives that a file of a consumer that is maintained by a
consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title contains incomplete or
inaccurate information, with respect to which, the consumer appears to have disputed the
completeness or accuracy with the consumer reporting agency or otherwise utilized the
procedures provided by subsection (a); and
(B) transmit each such complaint to each consumer reporting agency involved.
(2) Exclusion
Complaints received or obtained by the Bureau pursuant to its investigative authority under
the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 shall not be subject to paragraph (1).
(3) Agency responsibilities
Each consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title that receives a
complaint transmitted by the Bureau pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—
(A) review each such complaint to determine whether all legal obligations imposed on the
consumer reporting agency under this subchapter (including any obligation imposed by an
applicable court or administrative order) have been met with respect to the subject matter of
the complaint;
(B) provide reports on a regular basis to the Bureau regarding the determinations of and
actions taken by the consumer reporting agency, if any, in connection with its review of such
complaints; and
(C) maintain, for a reasonable time period, records regarding the disposition of each such
complaint that is sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this subsection.
(4) Rulemaking authority
The Commission 1 may prescribe regulations, as appropriate to implement this subsection.
(5) Annual report
The Commission 1 shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives an
annual report regarding information gathered by the Bureau under this subsection.

(f) Reinvestigation requirement applicable to resellers
(1) Exemption from general reinvestigation requirement
Except as provided in paragraph (2), a reseller shall be exempt from the requirements of
this section.
(2) Action required upon receiving notice of a dispute
If a reseller receives a notice from a consumer of a dispute concerning the completeness or
accuracy of any item of information contained in a consumer report on such consumer
produced by the reseller, the reseller shall, within 5 business days of receiving the notice, and
free of charge—
(A) determine whether the item of information is incomplete or inaccurate as a result of
an act or omission of the reseller; and
(B) if—
(i) the reseller determines that the item of information is incomplete or inaccurate as a
result of an act or omission of the reseller, not later than 20 days after receiving the
notice, correct the information in the consumer report or delete it; or
(ii) if the reseller determines that the item of information is not incomplete or inaccurate
as a result of an act or omission of the reseller, convey the notice of the dispute, together
with all relevant information provided by the consumer, to each consumer reporting
agency that provided the reseller with the information that is the subject of the dispute,
using an address or a notification mechanism specified by the consumer reporting
agency for such notices.
(3) Responsibility of consumer reporting agency to notify consumer through reseller
Upon the completion of a reinvestigation under this section of a dispute concerning the
completeness or accuracy of any information in the file of a consumer by a consumer
reporting agency that received notice of the dispute from a reseller under paragraph (2)—
(A) the notice by the consumer reporting agency under paragraph (6), (7), or (8) of
subsection (a) shall be provided to the reseller in lieu of the consumer; and
(B) the reseller shall immediately reconvey such notice to the consumer, including any
notice of a deletion by telephone in the manner required under paragraph (8)(A).
(4) Reseller reinvestigations
No provision of this subsection shall be construed as prohibiting a reseller from conducting
a reinvestigation of a consumer dispute directly.
(g) Dispute process for veteran's medical debt
(1) In general
With respect to a veteran's medical debt, the veteran may submit a notice described in
paragraph (2), proof of liability of the Department of Veterans Affairs for payment of that debt,
or documentation that the Department of Veterans Affairs is in the process of making payment
for authorized hospital care, medical services, or extended care services rendered to a
consumer reporting agency or a reseller to dispute the inclusion of that debt on a consumer
report of the veteran.
(2) Notification to veteran

The Department of Veterans Affairs shall submit to a veteran a notice that the Department
of Veterans Affairs has assumed liability for part or all of a veteran's medical debt.
(3) Deletion of information from file
If a consumer reporting agency receives notice, proof of liability, or documentation under
paragraph (1), the consumer reporting agency shall delete all information relating to the
veteran's medical debt from the file of the veteran and notify the furnisher and the veteran of
that deletion.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §611, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1132; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2409, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–439;
Pub. L. 105–347,§6(5), Nov. 2, 1998, 112 Stat. 3211; Pub. L. 108–159, title III, §§313(a), 314(a),
316, 317, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1994–1996, 1998; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(C),
(6), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087; Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §302(b)(3), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat.
1333.)
References in Text
The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, referred to in subsec. (e)(2), is title X of Pub.
L. 111–203, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1955, which enacted subchapter V (§5481 et seq.) of
chapter 53 of Title 12, Banks and Banking, and enacted and amended numerous other sections
and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note
set out under section 5301 of Title 12 and Tables.
Amendments
2018—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 115–174, §302(b)(3)(A), inserted "and except as provided in
subsection (g)" after "subsection (f)".
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 115–174, §302(b)(3)(B), added subsec. (g).
2010—Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(6), added par. (2) and struck out former par.
(2) which read as follows: "Complaints received or obtained by the Commission pursuant to its
investigative authority under the Federal Trade Commission Act shall not be subject to
paragraph (1)."
Subsec. (e)(3), (5). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "the Bureau" for "the
Commission" wherever appearing.
2003—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 108–159, §317, substituted "shall, free of charge, conduct a
reasonable reinvestigation to determine whether the disputed information is inaccurate" for
"shall reinvestigate free of charge".
Pub. L. 108–159, §316(a)(1), substituted "Subject to subsection (f), if the completeness" for "If
the completeness" and inserted ", or indirectly through a reseller," after "notifies the agency
directly" and "or reseller" before period at end.
Subsec. (a)(2)(A). Pub. L. 108–159, §316(a)(2), inserted "or a reseller" after "dispute from any
consumer" and "or reseller" before period at end.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). Pub. L. 108–159, §316(c), struck out "from consumer" after "information" in
heading.
Pub. L. 108–159, §316(a)(3), inserted "or the reseller" after "from the consumer".
Subsec. (a)(5)(A). Pub. L. 108–159, §314(a), substituted "shall—" and cls. (i) and (ii) for "shall
promptly delete that item of information from the consumer's file or modify that item of
information, as appropriate, based on the results of the reinvestigation."
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–159, §313(a), added subsec. (e).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–159, §316(b), added subsec. (f).
1998—Subsec. (a)(7). Pub. L. 105–347 substituted "(6)(B)(iii)" for "(6)(B)(iv)".
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2409(a), inserted heading and amended text of
subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "If the completeness or
accuracy of any item of information contained in his file is disputed by a consumer, and such
dispute is directly conveyed to the consumer reporting agency by the consumer, the consumer
reporting agency shall within a reasonable period of time reinvestigate and record the current
status of that information unless it has reasonable grounds to believe that the dispute by the
consumer is frivolous or irrelevant. If after such reinvestigation such information is found to be
inaccurate or can no longer be verified, the consumer reporting agency shall promptly delete
such information. The presence of contradictory information in the consumer's file does not in
and of itself constitute reasonable grounds for believing the dispute is frivolous or irrelevant."
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2409(b), struck out at end "The consumer reporting agency
shall clearly and conspicuously disclose to the consumer his rights to make such a request.
Such disclosure shall be made at or prior to the time the information is deleted or the
consumer's statement regarding the disputed information is received."
Effective Date of 2018 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 115–174 effective 1 year after May 24, 2018, see section 302(e) of
Pub. L. 115–174, set out as a note under section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–347 deemed to have same effective date as amendments made
by section 2403 of Pub. L. 104–208, see section 7 of Pub. L. 105–347, set out as a note under
section 1681a of this title.

Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Prompt Investigation of Disputed Consumer Information
Pub. L. 108–159, title III, §313(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1994, provided that:
"(1) Study required.—The Board and the Commission shall jointly study the extent to which,
and the manner in which, consumer reporting agencies and furnishers of consumer information
to consumer reporting agencies are complying with the procedures, time lines, and
requirements under the Fair Credit Reporting Act [this subchapter] for the prompt investigation
of the disputed accuracy of any consumer information, the completeness of the information
provided to consumer reporting agencies, and the prompt correction or deletion, in accordance
with such Act, of any inaccurate or incomplete information or information that cannot be verified.
"(2) Report required.—Before the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003], the Board and the Commission shall jointly submit a
progress report to the Congress on the results of the study required under paragraph (1).
"(3) Considerations.—In preparing the report required under paragraph (2), the Board and the
Commission shall consider information relating to complaints compiled by the Commission
under section 611(e) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681i(e)], as added by this
section.
"(4) Recommendations.—The report required under paragraph (2) shall include such
recommendations as the Board and the Commission jointly determine to be appropriate for
legislative or administrative action, to ensure that—
"(A) consumer disputes with consumer reporting agencies over the accuracy or
completeness of information in a consumer's file are promptly and fully investigated and any
incorrect, incomplete, or unverifiable information is corrected or deleted immediately
thereafter;
"(B) furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies maintain full and prompt
compliance with the duties and responsibilities established under section 623 of the Fair
Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681s–2]; and
"(C) consumer reporting agencies establish and maintain appropriate internal controls
and management review procedures for maintaining full and continuous compliance with the
procedures, time lines, and requirements under the Fair Credit Reporting Act [this subchapter]
for the prompt investigation of the disputed accuracy of any consumer information and the

prompt correction or deletion, in accordance with such Act, of any inaccurate or incomplete
information or information that cannot be verified."
[For definitions of terms used in section 313(b) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]
1

So in original. Probably should be "Bureau".

§1681j. Charges for certain disclosures
(a) Free annual disclosure
(1) Nationwide consumer reporting agencies
(A) In general
All consumer reporting agencies described in subsections (p) and (w) 1 of section 1681a
of this title shall make all disclosures pursuant to section 1681g of this title once during any
12-month period upon request of the consumer and without charge to the consumer.
(B) Centralized source
Subparagraph (A) shall apply with respect to a consumer reporting agency described in
section 1681a(p) of this title only if the request from the consumer is made using the
centralized source established for such purpose in accordance with section 211(c) 1 of the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003.
(C) Nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency
(i) In general
The Commission 2 shall prescribe regulations applicable to each consumer reporting
agency described in section 1681a(w) 1 of this title to require the establishment of a
streamlined process for consumers to request consumer reports under subparagraph (A),
which shall include, at a minimum, the establishment by each such agency of a toll-free
telephone number for such requests.
(ii) Considerations
In prescribing regulations under clause (i), the Bureau shall consider—
(I) the significant demands that may be placed on consumer reporting agencies in
providing such consumer reports;
(II) appropriate means to ensure that consumer reporting agencies can satisfactorily
meet those demands, including the efficacy of a system of staggering the availability to
consumers of such consumer reports; and
(III) the ease by which consumers should be able to contact consumer reporting
agencies with respect to access to such consumer reports.
(iii) Date of issuance
The Commission 2 shall issue the regulations required by this subparagraph in final
form not later than 6 months after December 4, 2003.
(iv) Consideration of ability to comply

The regulations of the Bureau under this subparagraph shall establish an effective date
by which each nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency (as defined in section
1681a(w) 1 of this title) shall be required to comply with subsection (a), which effective
date—
(I) shall be established after consideration of the ability of each nationwide specialty
consumer reporting agency to comply with subsection (a); and
(II) shall be not later than 6 months after the date on which such regulations are
issued in final form (or such additional period not to exceed 3 months, as the Bureau
determines appropriate).
(2) Timing
A consumer reporting agency shall provide a consumer report under paragraph (1) not later
than 15 days after the date on which the request is received under paragraph (1).
(3) Reinvestigations
Notwithstanding the time periods specified in section 1681i(a)(1) of this title, a
reinvestigation under that section by a consumer reporting agency upon a request of a
consumer that is made after receiving a consumer report under this subsection shall be
completed not later than 45 days after the date on which the request is received.
(4) Exception for first 12 months of operation
This subsection shall not apply to a consumer reporting agency that has not been furnishing
consumer reports to third parties on a continuing basis during the 12-month period preceding
a request under paragraph (1), with respect to consumers residing nationwide.
(b) Free disclosure after adverse notice to consumer
Each consumer reporting agency that maintains a file on a consumer shall make all
disclosures pursuant to section 1681g of this title without charge to the consumer if, not later
than 60 days after receipt by such consumer of a notification pursuant to section 1681m of this
title, or of a notification from a debt collection agency affiliated with that consumer reporting
agency stating that the consumer's credit rating may be or has been adversely affected, the
consumer makes a request under section 1681g of this title.
(c) Free disclosure under certain other circumstances
Upon the request of the consumer, a consumer reporting agency shall make all disclosures
pursuant to section 1681g of this title once during any 12-month period without charge to that
consumer if the consumer certifies in writing that the consumer—
(1) is unemployed and intends to apply for employment in the 60-day period beginning on
the date on which the certification is made;
(2) is a recipient of public welfare assistance; or
(3) has reason to believe that the file on the consumer at the agency contains inaccurate
information due to fraud.
(d) Free disclosures in connection with fraud alerts
Upon the request of a consumer, a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p)
of this title shall make all disclosures pursuant to section 1681g of this title without charge to the

consumer, as provided in subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2) of section 1681c–1 of this title, as
applicable.
(e) Other charges prohibited
A consumer reporting agency shall not impose any charge on a consumer for providing any
notification required by this subchapter or making any disclosure required by this subchapter,
except as authorized by subsection (f).
(f) Reasonable charges allowed for certain disclosures
(1) In general
In the case of a request from a consumer other than a request that is covered by any of
subsections (a) through (d), a consumer reporting agency may impose a reasonable charge
on a consumer—
(A) for making a disclosure to the consumer pursuant to section 1681g of this title, which
charge—
(i) shall not exceed $8; and
(ii) shall be indicated to the consumer before making the disclosure; and
(B) for furnishing, pursuant to section 1681i(d) of this title, following a reinvestigation
under section 1681i(a) of this title, a statement, codification, or summary to a person
designated by the consumer under that section after the 30-day period beginning on the
date of notification of the consumer under paragraph (6) or (8) of section 1681i(a) of this
title with respect to the reinvestigation, which charge—
(i) shall not exceed the charge that the agency would impose on each designated
recipient for a consumer report; and
(ii) shall be indicated to the consumer before furnishing such information.
(2) Modification of amount
The Bureau shall increase the amount referred to in paragraph (1)(A)(i) on January 1 of
each year, based proportionally on changes in the Consumer Price Index, with fractional
changes rounded to the nearest fifty cents.
(g) Prevention of deceptive marketing of credit reports
(1) In general
Subject to rulemaking pursuant to section 205(b) of the Credit CARD Act of 2009, any
advertisement for a free credit report in any medium shall prominently disclose in such
advertisement that free credit reports are available under Federal law at:
"AnnualCreditReport.com" (or such other source as may be authorized under Federal law).
(2) Television and radio advertisement
In the case of an advertisement broadcast by television, the disclosures required under
paragraph (1) shall be included in the audio and visual part of such advertisement. In the case
of an advertisement broadcast by televison 3 or radio, the disclosure required under
paragraph (1) shall consist only of the following: "This is not the free credit report provided for
by Federal law".

(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §612, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1132; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2410, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–442;
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §211(a), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1968; Pub. L. 111–24, title II, §205(a),
May 22, 2009, 123 Stat. 1747; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(A), (C), July 21, 2010, 124
Stat. 2087.)
References in Text
Section 1681a(w) of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), (C)(i), (iv), was redesignated
section 1681a(x) of this title by Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(1), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat.
2086.
Section 211(c) of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, referred to in subsec.
(a)(1)(B), probably means section 211(d) of Pub. L. 108–159, which is set out as a note below
and relates to the establishment of a centralized source. Section 211(c) of Pub. L. 108–159
amended section 1681g of this title.
Section 205(b) of the Credit CARD Act of 2009, referred to in subsec. (g), is section 205(b) of
Pub. L. 111–24, which is set out as a note below.
Amendments
2010—Subsec. (a)(1)(C). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "the Bureau" for "the
Commission" wherever appearing.
Subsec. (f)(2). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(A), substituted "Bureau" for "Federal Trade
Commission".
2009—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 111–24 added subsec. (g).
2003—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108–159, §211(a)(2), added subsec. (a). Former subsec. (a)
redesignated (f).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–159, §211(a)(4), added subsec. (d). Former subsec. (d)
redesignated (e).
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–159, §211(a)(3), (5), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e) and substituted
"subsection (f)" for "subsection (a)".
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–159, §211(a)(1), (6), redesignated subsec. (a) as (f) and substituted
"In the case of a request from a consumer other than a request that is covered by any of
subsections (a) through (d), a" for "Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), and (d), a" in par.
(1).
1996—Pub. L. 104–208 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as
follows: "A consumer reporting agency shall make all disclosures pursuant to section 1681g of
this titleand furnish all consumer reports pursuant to section 1681i(d) of this title without charge
to the consumer if, within thirty days after receipt by such consumer of a notification pursuant to
section 1681m of this title or notification from a debt collection agency affiliated with such
consumer reporting agency stating that the consumer's credit rating may be or has been
adversely affected, the consumer makes a request under section 1681g or 1681i(d) of this title.

Otherwise, the consumer reporting agency may impose a reasonable charge on the consumer
for making disclosure to such consumer pursuant to section 1681g of this title, the charge for
which shall be indicated to the consumer prior to making disclosure; and for furnishing
notifications, statements, summaries, or codifications to person designated by the consumer
pursuant to section 1681i(d) of this title, the charge for which shall be indicated to the consumer
prior to furnishing such information and shall not exceed the charge that the consumer reporting
agency would impose on each designated recipient for a consumer report except that no charge
may be made for notifying such persons of the deletion of information which is found to be
inaccurate or which can no longer be verified."
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2009 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–24 effective 9 months after May 22, 2009, except as otherwise
specifically provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–24, set out as a note under section 1602 of
this title.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Regulations
Pub. L. 111–24, title II, §205(b), May 22, 2009, 123 Stat. 1747, provided that:
"(1) In general.—Not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this Act [May 22,
2009], the Federal Trade Commission shall issue a final rule to carry out this section.
"(2) Content.—The rule required by this subsection—
"(A) shall include specific wording to be used in advertisements in accordance with this
section; and
"(B) for advertisements on the Internet, shall include whether the disclosure required
under section 612(g)(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681j(g)(1)] (as added by

this section) shall appear on the advertisement or the website on which the free credit report
is made available.
"(3) Interim disclosures.—If an advertisement subject to section 612(g) of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681j(g)], as added by this section, is made public after the 9-month
deadline specified in paragraph (1), but before the rule required by paragraph (1) is finalized,
such advertisement shall include the disclosure: 'Free credit reports are available under Federal
law at: "AnnualCreditReport.com".' "
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §211(d), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1972, as amended by Pub. L.
111–203, §1088(b)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2092, provided that:
"(1) In general.—The Bureau [probably means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection]
shall prescribe regulations applicable to consumer reporting agencies described in section
603(p) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)], to require the establishment of—
"(A) a centralized source through which consumers may obtain a consumer report from
each such consumer reporting agency, using a single request, and without charge to the
consumer, as provided in section 612(a) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681j(a)]
(as amended by this section); and
"(B) a standardized form for a consumer to make such a request for a consumer report
by mail or through an Internet website.
"(2) Considerations.—In prescribing regulations under paragraph (1), the Bureau shall
consider—
"(A) the significant demands that may be placed on consumer reporting agencies in
providing such consumer reports;
"(B) appropriate means to ensure that consumer reporting agencies can satisfactorily
meet those demands, including the efficacy of a system of staggering the availability to
consumers of such consumer reports; and
"(C) the ease by which consumers should be able to contact consumer reporting
agencies with respect to access to such consumer reports.
"(3) Centralized source.—The centralized source for a request for a consumer report from a
consumer required by this subsection shall provide for—
"(A) a toll-free telephone number for such purpose;
"(B) use of an Internet website for such purpose; and
"(C) a process for requests by mail for such purpose.
"(4) Transition.—The regulations of the Bureau under paragraph (1) shall provide for an
orderly transition by consumer reporting agencies described in section 603(p) of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)] to the centralized source for consumer report distribution

required by section 612(a)(1)(B) [15 U.S.C. 1681j(a)(1)(B)], as amended by this section, in a
manner that—
"(A) does not temporarily overwhelm such consumer reporting agencies with requests for
disclosures of consumer reports beyond their capacity to deliver; and
"(B) does not deny creditors, other users, and consumers access to consumer reports on
a time-sensitive basis for specific purposes, such as home purchases or suspicions of identity
theft, during the transition period.
"(5) Timing.—Regulations required by this subsection shall—
"(A) be issued in final form not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act
[Dec. 4, 2003]; and
"(B) become effective not later than 6 months after the date on which they are issued in
final form.
"(6) Scope of regulations.—
"(A) In general.—The Bureau shall, by rule, determine whether to require a consumer
reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on substantially a
nationwide basis, other than one described in section 603(p) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act
[15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)], to make free consumer reports available upon consumer request, and if
so, whether such consumer reporting agencies should make such free reports available
through the centralized source described in paragraph (1)(A).
"(B) Considerations.—Before making any determination under subparagraph (A), the
Bureau shall consider—
"(i) the number of requests for consumer reports to, and the number of consumer
reports generated by, the consumer reporting agency, in comparison with consumer
reporting agencies described in subsections (p) and (w) [now (x)] of section 603 of the Fair
Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681a(p), (w) [x]];
"(ii) the overall scope of the operations of the consumer reporting agency;
"(iii) the needs of consumers for access to consumer reports provided by consumer
reporting agencies free of charge;
"(iv) the costs of providing access to consumer reports by consumer reporting
agencies free of charge; and
"(v) the effects on the ongoing competitive viability of such consumer reporting
agencies if such free access is required."
[For definitions of terms used in section 211(d) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]
1

See References in Text note below.

2

So in original. Probably should be "Bureau".

3

So in original. Probably should be "television".

§1681k. Public record information for employment purposes
(a) In general
A consumer reporting agency which furnishes a consumer report for employment purposes
and which for that purpose compiles and reports items of information on consumers which are
matters of public record and are likely to have an adverse effect upon a consumer's ability to
obtain employment shall—
(1) at the time such public record information is reported to the user of such consumer
report, notify the consumer of the fact that public record information is being reported by the
consumer reporting agency, together with the name and address of the person to whom such
information is being reported; or
(2) maintain strict procedures designed to insure that whenever public record information
which is likely to have an adverse effect on a consumer's ability to obtain employment is
reported it is complete and up to date. For purposes of this paragraph, items of public record
relating to arrests, indictments, convictions, suits, tax liens, and outstanding judgments shall
be considered up to date if the current public record status of the item at the time of the report
is reported.
(b) Exemption for national security investigations
Subsection (a) does not apply in the case of an agency or department of the United States
Government that seeks to obtain and use a consumer report for employment purposes, if the
head of the agency or department makes a written finding as prescribed under section
1681b(b)(4)(A) of this title.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §613, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1133; amended Pub. L. 105–347, §4(b), Nov. 2, 1998, 112 Stat. 3210.)
Amendments
1998—Pub. L. 105–347 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and
added subsec. (b).
Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–347 deemed to have same effective date as amendments made
by section 2403 of Pub. L. 104–208, see section 7 of Pub. L. 105–347, set out as a note under
section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681l. Restrictions on investigative consumer reports
Whenever a consumer reporting agency prepares an investigative consumer report, no
adverse information in the consumer report (other than information which is a matter of public

record) may be included in a subsequent consumer report unless such adverse information has
been verified in the process of making such subsequent consumer report, or the adverse
information was received within the three-month period preceding the date the subsequent
report is furnished.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §614, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1133.)
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681m. Requirements on users of consumer reports
(a) Duties of users taking adverse actions on basis of information contained in consumer
reports
If any person takes any adverse action with respect to any consumer that is based in whole or
in part on any information contained in a consumer report, the person shall—
(1) provide oral, written, or electronic notice of the adverse action to the consumer;
(2) provide to the consumer written or electronic disclosure—
(A) of a numerical credit score as defined in section 1681g(f)(2)(A) of this title used by
such person in taking any adverse action based in whole or in part on any information in a
consumer report; and
(B) of the information set forth in subparagraphs (B) through (E) of section 1681g(f)(1) of
this title;
(3) provide to the consumer orally, in writing, or electronically—
(A) the name, address, and telephone number of the consumer reporting agency
(including a toll-free telephone number established by the agency if the agency compiles
and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis) that furnished the report to the
person; and
(B) a statement that the consumer reporting agency did not make the decision to take the
adverse action and is unable to provide the consumer the specific reasons why the adverse
action was taken; and
(4) provide to the consumer an oral, written, or electronic notice of the consumer's right—
(A) to obtain, under section 1681j of this title, a free copy of a consumer report on the
consumer from the consumer reporting agency referred to in paragraph (3), which notice
shall include an indication of the 60-day period under that section for obtaining such a copy;
and
(B) to dispute, under section 1681i of this title, with a consumer reporting agency the
accuracy or completeness of any information in a consumer report furnished by the agency.

(b) Adverse action based on information obtained from third parties other than consumer
reporting agencies
(1) In general
Whenever credit for personal, family, or household purposes involving a consumer is
denied or the charge for such credit is increased either wholly or partly because of information
obtained from a person other than a consumer reporting agency bearing upon the consumer's
credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal
characteristics, or mode of living, the user of such information shall, within a reasonable
period of time, upon the consumer's written request for the reasons for such adverse action
received within sixty days after learning of such adverse action, disclose the nature of the
information to the consumer. The user of such information shall clearly and accurately
disclose to the consumer his right to make such written request at the time such adverse
action is communicated to the consumer.
(2) Duties of person taking certain actions based on information provided by affiliate
(A) Duties, generally
If a person takes an action described in subparagraph (B) with respect to a consumer,
based in whole or in part on information described in subparagraph (C), the person shall—
(i) notify the consumer of the action, including a statement that the consumer may
obtain the information in accordance with clause (ii); and
(ii) upon a written request from the consumer received within 60 days after transmittal
of the notice required by clause (i), disclose to the consumer the nature of the information
upon which the action is based by not later than 30 days after receipt of the request.
(B) Action described
An action referred to in subparagraph (A) is an adverse action described in section
1681a(k)(1)(A) of this title, taken in connection with a transaction initiated by the consumer,
or any adverse action described in clause (i) or (ii) of section 1681a(k)(1)(B) of this title.
(C) Information described
Information referred to in subparagraph (A)—
(i) except as provided in clause (ii), is information that—
(I) is furnished to the person taking the action by a person related by common
ownership or affiliated by common corporate control to the person taking the action;
and
(II) bears on the credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general
reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living of the consumer; and
(ii) does not include—
(I) information solely as to transactions or experiences between the consumer and
the person furnishing the information; or
(II) information in a consumer report.
(c) Reasonable procedures to assure compliance

No person shall be held liable for any violation of this section if he shows by a preponderance
of the evidence that at the time of the alleged violation he maintained reasonable procedures to
assure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(d) Duties of users making written credit or insurance solicitations on basis of
information contained in consumer files
(1) In general
Any person who uses a consumer report on any consumer in connection with any credit or
insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer, that is provided to that person
under section 1681b(c)(1)(B) of this title, shall provide with each written solicitation made to
the consumer regarding the transaction a clear and conspicuous statement that—
(A) information contained in the consumer's consumer report was used in connection with
the transaction;
(B) the consumer received the offer of credit or insurance because the consumer
satisfied the criteria for credit worthiness or insurability under which the consumer was
selected for the offer;
(C) if applicable, the credit or insurance may not be extended if, after the consumer
responds to the offer, the consumer does not meet the criteria used to select the consumer
for the offer or any applicable criteria bearing on credit worthiness or insurability or does not
furnish any required collateral;
(D) the consumer has a right to prohibit information contained in the consumer's file with
any consumer reporting agency from being used in connection with any credit or insurance
transaction that is not initiated by the consumer; and
(E) the consumer may exercise the right referred to in subparagraph (D) by notifying a
notification system established under section 1681b(e) of this title.
(2) Disclosure of address and telephone number; format
A statement under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) include the address and toll-free telephone number of the appropriate notification
system established under section 1681b(e) of this title; and
(B) be presented in such format and in such type size and manner as to be simple and
easy to understand, as established by the Bureau, by rule, in consultation with the Federal
Trade Commission, the Federal banking agencies, and the National Credit Union
Administration.
(3) Maintaining criteria on file
A person who makes an offer of credit or insurance to a consumer under a credit or
insurance transaction described in paragraph (1) shall maintain on file the criteria used to
select the consumer to receive the offer, all criteria bearing on credit worthiness or insurability,
as applicable, that are the basis for determining whether or not to extend credit or insurance
pursuant to the offer, and any requirement for the furnishing of collateral as a condition of the
extension of credit or insurance, until the expiration of the 3-year period beginning on the date
on which the offer is made to the consumer.
(4) Authority of Federal agencies regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices not
affected

This section is not intended to affect the authority of any Federal or State agency to enforce
a prohibition against unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including the making of false or
misleading statements in connection with a credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated
by the consumer.
(e) Red flag guidelines and regulations required
(1) Guidelines
The Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, the Federal Trade
Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Securities and Exchange
Commission shall jointly, with respect to the entities that are subject to their respective
enforcement authority under section 1681s of this title—
(A) establish and maintain guidelines for use by each financial institution and each
creditor regarding identity theft with respect to account holders at, or customers of, such
entities, and update such guidelines as often as necessary;
(B) prescribe regulations requiring each financial institution and each creditor to establish
reasonable policies and procedures for implementing the guidelines established pursuant to
subparagraph (A), to identify possible risks to account holders or customers or to the safety
and soundness of the institution or customers; and
(C) prescribe regulations applicable to card issuers to ensure that, if a card issuer
receives notification of a change of address for an existing account, and within a short
period of time (during at least the first 30 days after such notification is received) receives a
request for an additional or replacement card for the same account, the card issuer may not
issue the additional or replacement card, unless the card issuer, in accordance with
reasonable policies and procedures—
(i) notifies the cardholder of the request at the former address of the cardholder and
provides to the cardholder a means of promptly reporting incorrect address changes;
(ii) notifies the cardholder of the request by such other means of communication as the
cardholder and the card issuer previously agreed to; or
(iii) uses other means of assessing the validity of the change of address, in accordance
with reasonable policies and procedures established by the card issuer in accordance
with the regulations prescribed under subparagraph (B).
(2) Criteria
(A) In general
In developing the guidelines required by paragraph (1)(A), the agencies described in
paragraph (1) shall identify patterns, practices, and specific forms of activity that indicate
the possible existence of identity theft.
(B) Inactive accounts
In developing the guidelines required by paragraph (1)(A), the agencies described in
paragraph (1) shall consider including reasonable guidelines providing that when a
transaction occurs with respect to a credit or deposit account that has been inactive for
more than 2 years, the creditor or financial institution shall follow reasonable policies and
procedures that provide for notice to be given to a consumer in a manner reasonably
designed to reduce the likelihood of identity theft with respect to such account.

(3) Consistency with verification requirements
Guidelines established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not be inconsistent with the policies
and procedures required under section 5318(l) of title 31.
(4) Definitions
As used in this subsection, the term "creditor"—
(A) means a creditor, as defined in section 1691a of this title, that regularly and in the
ordinary course of business—
(i) obtains or uses consumer reports, directly or indirectly, in connection with a credit
transaction;
(ii) furnishes information to consumer reporting agencies, as described in section
1681s–2 of this title, in connection with a credit transaction; or
(iii) advances funds to or on behalf of a person, based on an obligation of the person to
repay the funds or repayable from specific property pledged by or on behalf of the
person;
(B) does not include a creditor described in subparagraph (A)(iii) that advances funds on
behalf of a person for expenses incidental to a service provided by the creditor to that
person; and
(C) includes any other type of creditor, as defined in that section 1691a of this title, as the
agency described in paragraph (1) having authority over that creditor may determine
appropriate by rule promulgated by that agency, based on a determination that such
creditor offers or maintains accounts that are subject to a reasonably foreseeable risk of
identity theft.
(f) Prohibition on sale or transfer of debt caused by identity theft
(1) In general
No person shall sell, transfer for consideration, or place for collection a debt that such
person has been notified under section 1681c–2 of this title has resulted from identity theft.
(2) Applicability
The prohibitions of this subsection shall apply to all persons collecting a debt described in
paragraph (1) after the date of a notification under paragraph (1).
(3) Rule of construction
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit—
(A) the repurchase of a debt in any case in which the assignee of the debt requires such
repurchase because the debt has resulted from identity theft;
(B) the securitization of a debt or the pledging of a portfolio of debt as collateral in
connection with a borrowing; or
(C) the transfer of debt as a result of a merger, acquisition, purchase and assumption
transaction, or transfer of substantially all of the assets of an entity.
(g) Debt collector communications concerning identity theft
If a person acting as a debt collector (as that term is defined in subchapter V) on behalf of a
third party that is a creditor or other user of a consumer report is notified that any information

relating to a debt that the person is attempting to collect may be fraudulent or may be the result
of identity theft, that person shall—
(1) notify the third party that the information may be fraudulent or may be the result of
identity theft; and
(2) upon request of the consumer to whom the debt purportedly relates, provide to the
consumer all information to which the consumer would otherwise be entitled if the consumer
were not a victim of identity theft, but wished to dispute the debt under provisions of law
applicable to that person.
(h) Duties of users in certain credit transactions
(1) In general
Subject to rules prescribed as provided in paragraph (6), if any person uses a consumer
report in connection with an application for, or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit
on material terms that are materially less favorable than the most favorable terms available to
a substantial proportion of consumers from or through that person, based in whole or in part
on a consumer report, the person shall provide an oral, written, or electronic notice to the
consumer in the form and manner required by regulations prescribed in accordance with this
subsection.
(2) Timing
The notice required under paragraph (1) may be provided at the time of an application for,
or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit or the time of communication of an approval
of an application for, or grant, extension, or other provision of, credit, except as provided in
the regulations prescribed under paragraph (6).
(3) Exceptions
No notice shall be required from a person under this subsection if—
(A) the consumer applied for specific material terms and was granted those terms, unless
those terms were initially specified by the person after the transaction was initiated by the
consumer and after the person obtained a consumer report; or
(B) the person has provided or will provide a notice to the consumer under subsection (a)
in connection with the transaction.
(4) Other notice not sufficient
A person that is required to provide a notice under subsection (a) cannot meet that
requirement by providing a notice under this subsection.
(5) Content and delivery of notice
A notice under this subsection shall, at a minimum—
(A) include a statement informing the consumer that the terms offered to the consumer
are set based on information from a consumer report;
(B) identify the consumer reporting agency furnishing the report;
(C) include a statement informing the consumer that the consumer may obtain a copy of
a consumer report from that consumer reporting agency without charge;
(D) include the contact information specified by that consumer reporting agency for
obtaining such consumer reports (including a toll-free telephone number established by the

agency in the case of a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this
title); and
(E) include a statement informing the consumer of—
(i) a numerical credit score as defined in section 1681g(f)(2)(A) of this title, used by
such person in making the credit decision described in paragraph (1) based in whole or in
part on any information in a consumer report; and
(ii) the information set forth in subparagraphs (B) through (E) of section 1681g(f)(1) of
this title.
(6) Rulemaking
(A) Rules required
The Bureau shall prescribe rules to carry out this subsection.
(B) Content
Rules required by subparagraph (A) shall address, but are not limited to—
(i) the form, content, time, and manner of delivery of any notice under this subsection;
(ii) clarification of the meaning of terms used in this subsection, including what credit
terms are material, and when credit terms are materially less favorable;
(iii) exceptions to the notice requirement under this subsection for classes of persons or
transactions regarding which the agencies determine that notice would not significantly
benefit consumers;
(iv) a model notice that may be used to comply with this subsection; and
(v) the timing of the notice required under paragraph (1), including the circumstances
under which the notice must be provided after the terms offered to the consumer were set
based on information from a consumer report.
(7) Compliance
A person shall not be liable for failure to perform the duties required by this section if, at the
time of the failure, the person maintained reasonable policies and procedures to comply with
this section.
(8) Enforcement
(A) No civil actions
Sections 1681n and 1681o of this title shall not apply to any failure by any person to
comply with this section.
(B) Administrative enforcement
This section shall be enforced exclusively under section 1681s of this title by the Federal
agencies and officials identified in that section.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §615, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1133; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2411, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–443; Pub.
L. 108–159, title I, §§114, 154(b), 155, title II, §213(a), title III, §311(a), title VIII, §811(h), Dec. 4,
2003, 117 Stat. 1960, 1967, 1978, 1988, 2012; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §§1088(a)(2)(C),
(7)–(9), 1100F, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087, 2088, 2112; Pub. L. 111–319, §2(a), Dec. 18,
2010, 124 Stat. 3457.)

Amendments
2010—Subsec. (a)(2) to (4). Pub. L. 111–203, §1100F(1), added par. (2), redesignated former
pars. (2) and (3) as (3) and (4), respectively, and substituted "paragraph (3)" for "paragraph (2)"
in par. (4).
Subsec. (d)(2)(B). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(7), substituted "the Federal Trade Commission,
the Federal banking agencies," for "the Federal banking agencies".
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "the Bureau" for "the Commission".
Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(8), substituted "the Federal Trade Commission, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Securities and Exchange Commission" for
"and the Commission" in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (e)(4). Pub. L. 111–319 added par. (4).
Subsec. (h)(5)(E). Pub. L. 111–203, §1100F(2), added subpar. (E).
Subsec. (h)(6)(A). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(9), added subpar. (A) and struck out former
subpar. (A). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The Commission and the Board shall
jointly prescribe rules."
2003—Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 108–159, §213(a), amended heading and text of par. (2)
generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "A statement under paragraph (1) shall
include the address and toll-free telephone number of the appropriate notification system
established under section 1681b(e) of this title."
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–159, §811(h), repealed Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(c). See 1996
Amendment note below.
Pub. L. 108–159, §114, added subsec. (e) and struck out former subsec. (e) designation that
had been added with no heading or text by Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(c). See note above and
1996 Amendment note below.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–159, §154(b), added subsec. (f).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–159, §155, added subsec. (g).
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 108–159, §311(a), added subsec. (h).
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(a), inserted heading and amended text of
subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Whenever credit or insurance
for personal, family, or household purposes, or employment involving a consumer is denied or
the charge for such credit or insurance is increased either wholly or partly because of
information contained in a consumer report from a consumer reporting agency, the user of the
consumer report shall so advise the consumer against whom such adverse action has been
taken and supply the name and address of the consumer reporting agency making the report."
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(e), inserted subsec. heading, designated existing
provisions as par. (1) and inserted heading, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(d), substituted "this section" for "subsections (a) and (b)
of this section".
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(b), added subsec. (d).
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 104–208, §2411(c), which added subsec. (e) containing subsec.
designation, but no heading or text, was repealed by Pub. L. 108–159, §811(h).
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Pub. L. 111–319, §2(b), Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3458, provided that: "The amendment made
by this section [amending this section] shall become effective on the date of enactment of this
Act [Dec. 18, 2010]."
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Regulations
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §213(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1979, provided that: "Regulations
required by section 615(d)(2) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681m(d)(2)], as
amended by this section, shall be issued in final form not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003]."

§1681n. Civil liability for willful noncompliance
(a) In general
Any person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement imposed under this subchapter
with respect to any consumer is liable to that consumer in an amount equal to the sum of—
(1)(A) any actual damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the failure or damages
of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000; or

(B) in the case of liability of a natural person for obtaining a consumer report under false
pretenses or knowingly without a permissible purpose, actual damages sustained by the
consumer as a result of the failure or $1,000, whichever is greater;
(2) such amount of punitive damages as the court may allow; and
(3) in the case of any successful action to enforce any liability under this section, the costs
of the action together with reasonable attorney's fees as determined by the court.
(b) Civil liability for knowing noncompliance
Any person who obtains a consumer report from a consumer reporting agency under false
pretenses or knowingly without a permissible purpose shall be liable to the consumer reporting
agency for actual damages sustained by the consumer reporting agency or $1,000, whichever is
greater.
(c) Attorney's fees
Upon a finding by the court that an unsuccessful pleading, motion, or other paper filed in
connection with an action under this section was filed in bad faith or for purposes of
harassment, the court shall award to the prevailing party attorney's fees reasonable in relation to
the work expended in responding to the pleading, motion, or other paper.
(d) Clarification of willful noncompliance
For the purposes of this section, any person who printed an expiration date on any receipt
provided to a consumer cardholder at a point of sale or transaction between December 4, 2004,
and June 3, 2008, but otherwise complied with the requirements of section 1681c(g) of this title
for such receipt shall not be in willful noncompliance with section 1681c(g) of this title by reason
of printing such expiration date on the receipt.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §616, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1134; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2412(a)–(c), (e)(1), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat.
3009–446; Pub. L. 110–241, §3(a), June 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 1566.)
Amendments
2008—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 110–241 added subsec. (d).
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2412(a), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a),
inserted heading, and in introductory provisions substituted "Any person who" for "Any
consumer reporting agency or user of information which".
Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 104–208, §2412(b), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment,
par. (1) read as follows: "any actual damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the
failure;".
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2412(c), added subsec. (b).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–208, §2412(e)(1), added subsec. (c).
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.

Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Construction
Pub. L. 108–159, title III, §312(f), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1993, provided that: "Nothing in this
section, the amendments made by this section, or any other provision of this Act [see Short Title
of 2003 Amendment note set out under section 1601 of this title] shall be construed to affect any
liability under section 616 or 617 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681n, 1681o) that
existed on the day before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003]."
Statement of Findings and Purpose for 2008 Amendment
Pub. L. 110–241, §2, June 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 1565, provided that:
"(a) Findings.—The Congress finds as follows:
"(1) The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act [of 2003] (commonly referred to as
'FACTA') [Pub. L. 108–159, see Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set out under section
1601 of this title] was enacted into law in 2003 and 1 of the purposes of such Act is to prevent
criminals from obtaining access to consumers' private financial and credit information in order
to reduce identity theft and credit card fraud.
"(2) As part of that law, the Congress enacted a requirement, through an amendment to
the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.], that no person that accepts credit
cards or debit cards for the transaction of business shall print more than the last 5 digits of the
card number or the expiration date upon any receipt provided to the card holder at the point of
the sale or transaction.
"(3) Many merchants understood that this requirement would be satisfied by truncating
the account number down to the last 5 digits based in part on the language of the provision as
well as the publicity in the aftermath of the passage of the law.
"(4) Almost immediately after the deadline for compliance passed, hundreds of lawsuits
were filed alleging that the failure to remove the expiration date was a willful violation of the
Fair Credit Reporting Act even where the account number was properly truncated.
"(5) None of these lawsuits contained an allegation of harm to any consumer's identity.
"(6) Experts in the field agree that proper truncation of the card number, by itself as
required by the amendment made by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act [of 2003],
regardless of the inclusion of the expiration date, prevents a potential fraudster from
perpetrating identity theft or credit card fraud.
"(7) Despite repeatedly being denied class certification, the continued appealing and filing
of these lawsuits represents a significant burden on the hundreds of companies that have
been sued and could well raise prices to consumers without corresponding consumer
protection benefit.

"(b) Purpose.—The purpose of this Act [amending this section and enacting provisions set out
as notes under this section and section 1601 of this title] is to ensure that consumers suffering
from any actual harm to their credit or identity are protected while simultaneously limiting
abusive lawsuits that do not protect consumers but only result in increased cost to business and
potentially increased prices to consumers."
Retroactive Effect of 2008 Amendment
Pub. L. 110–241, §3(b), June 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 1566, provided that: "The amendment made
by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to any action, other than an action which
has become final, that is brought for a violation of [section] 605(g) of the Fair Credit Reporting
Act [15 U.S.C. 1681c(g)] to which such amendment applies without regard to whether such
action is brought before or after the date of the enactment of this Act [June 3, 2008]."

§1681o. Civil liability for negligent noncompliance
(a) In general
Any person who is negligent in failing to comply with any requirement imposed under this
subchapter with respect to any consumer is liable to that consumer in an amount equal to the
sum of—
(1) any actual damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the failure; and
(2) in the case of any successful action to enforce any liability under this section, the costs
of the action together with reasonable attorney's fees as determined by the court.
(b) Attorney's fees
On a finding by the court that an unsuccessful pleading, motion, or other paper filed in
connection with an action under this section was filed in bad faith or for purposes of
harassment, the court shall award to the prevailing party attorney's fees reasonable in relation to
the work expended in responding to the pleading, motion, or other paper.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §617, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1134; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2412(d), (e)(2), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat.
3009–446, 3009-447; Pub. L. 108–159, title VIII, §811(e), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 2012.)
Amendments
2003—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 108–159 inserted "and" after semicolon at end.
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2412(d), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a),
inserted heading, and substituted "Any person who" for "Any consumer reporting agency or user
of information which".
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2412(e)(2), added subsec. (b).
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.

Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681p. Jurisdiction of courts; limitation of actions
An action to enforce any liability created under this subchapter may be brought in any
appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any
other court of competent jurisdiction, not later than the earlier of—
(1) 2 years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for
such liability; or
(2) 5 years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §618, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1134; amended Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §156, Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1968.)
Amendments
2003—Pub. L. 108–159 reenacted section catchline without change and amended text
generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "An action to enforce any liability created
under this subchapter may be brought in any appropriate United States district court without
regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, within two
years from the date on which the liability arises, except that where a defendant has materially
and willfully misrepresented any information required under this subchapter to be disclosed to
an individual and the information so misrepresented is material to the establishment of the
defendant's liability to that individual under this subchapter, the action may be brought at any
time within two years after discovery by the individual of the misrepresentation."
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681q. Obtaining information under false pretenses

Any person who knowingly and willfully obtains information on a consumer from a consumer
reporting agency under false pretenses shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more
than 2 years, or both.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §619, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1134; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2415(a), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–450.)
Amendments
1996—Pub. L. 104–208 substituted "fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2
years, or both" for "fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both".
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681r. Unauthorized disclosures by officers or employees
Any officer or employee of a consumer reporting agency who knowingly and willfully provides
information concerning an individual from the agency's files to a person not authorized to
receive that information shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or
both.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §620, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1134; amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2415(b), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–450.)
Amendments
1996—Pub. L. 104–208 substituted "fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2
years, or both" for "fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both".
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681s. Administrative enforcement

(a) Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission
(1) In general
The Federal Trade Commission shall be authorized to enforce compliance with the
requirements imposed by this subchapter under the Federal Trade Commission Act (15
U.S.C. 41 et seq.), with respect to consumer reporting agencies and all other persons subject
thereto, except to the extent that enforcement of the requirements imposed under this
subchapter is specifically committed to some other Government agency under any of
subparagraphs (A) through (G) of subsection (b)(1), and subject to subtitle B of the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.], subsection (b).1 For the purpose of
the exercise by the Federal Trade Commission of its functions and powers under the Federal
Trade Commission Act, a violation of any requirement or prohibition imposed under this
subchapter shall constitute an unfair or deceptive act or practice in commerce, in violation of
section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)), and shall be subject to
enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission under section 5(b) of that Act [15 U.S.C.
45(b)] with respect to any consumer reporting agency or person that is subject to enforcement
by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to this subsection, irrespective of whether that
person is engaged in commerce or meets any other jurisdictional tests under the Federal
Trade Commission Act. The Federal Trade Commission shall have such procedural,
investigative, and enforcement powers, including the power to issue procedural rules in
enforcing compliance with the requirements imposed under this subchapter and to require the
filing of reports, the production of documents, and the appearance of witnesses, as though
the applicable terms and conditions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were part of this
subchapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to
the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade
Commission Act as though the applicable terms and provisions of such Act are part of this
subchapter.
(2) Penalties
(A) Knowing violations
Except as otherwise provided by subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of
2010, in the event of a knowing violation, which constitutes a pattern or practice of
violations of this subchapter, the Federal Trade Commission may commence a civil action
to recover a civil penalty in a district court of the United States against any person that
violates this subchapter. In such action, such person shall be liable for a civil penalty of not
more than $2,500 per violation.
(B) Determining penalty amount
In determining the amount of a civil penalty under subparagraph (A), the court shall take
into account the degree of culpability, any history of such prior conduct, ability to pay, effect
on ability to continue to do business, and such other matters as justice may require.
(C) Limitation
Notwithstanding paragraph (2), a court may not impose any civil penalty on a person for
a violation of section 1681s–2(a)(1) of this title, unless the person has been enjoined from
committing the violation, or ordered not to commit the violation, in an action or proceeding

brought by or on behalf of the Federal Trade Commission, and has violated the injunction or
order, and the court may not impose any civil penalty for any violation occurring before the
date of the violation of the injunction or order.
(b) Enforcement by other agencies
(1) In general
Subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, compliance with the
requirements imposed under this subchapter with respect to consumer reporting agencies,
persons who use consumer reports from such agencies, persons who furnish information to
such agencies, and users of information that are subject to section 1681m(d) of this title shall
be enforced under—
(A) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), by the appropriate
Federal banking agency, as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
U.S.C. 1813(q)), with respect to—
(i) any national bank or State savings association, and any Federal branch or Federal
agency of a foreign bank;
(ii) any member bank of the Federal Reserve System (other than a national bank), a
branch or agency of a foreign bank (other than a Federal branch, Federal agency, or
insured State branch of a foreign bank), a commercial lending company owned or
controlled by a foreign bank, and any organization operating under section 25 or 25A of
the Federal Reserve Act [12 U.S.C. 601 et seq., 611 et seq.]; and
(iii) any bank or Federal savings association insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System) and any insured State
branch of a foreign bank;
(B) the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), by the Administrator of the
National Credit Union Administration with respect to any Federal credit union;
(C) subtitle IV of title 49, by the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to all carriers
subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board;
(D) part A of subtitle VII of title 49, by the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to any
air carrier or foreign air carrier subject to that part;
(E) the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) (except as provided in
section 406 of that Act [7 U.S.C. 226, 227]), by the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to
any activities subject to that Act;
(F) the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.], with respect to a person subject to
the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(G) the Federal securities laws, and any other laws that are subject to the jurisdiction of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to a person that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
(H) subtitle E of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5561 et seq.],
by the Bureau, with respect to any person subject to this subchapter.
(2) Incorporated definitions

The terms used in paragraph (1) that are not defined in this subchapter or otherwise
defined in section 3(s) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) have the
same meanings as in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).
(c) State action for violations
(1) Authority of States
In addition to such other remedies as are provided under State law, if the chief law
enforcement officer of a State, or an official or agency designated by a State, has reason to
believe that any person has violated or is violating this subchapter, the State—
(A) may bring an action to enjoin such violation in any appropriate United States district
court or in any other court of competent jurisdiction;
(B) subject to paragraph (5), may bring an action on behalf of the residents of the State to
recover—
(i) damages for which the person is liable to such residents under sections 1681n and
1681o of this title as a result of the violation;
(ii) in the case of a violation described in any of paragraphs (1) through (3) of section
1681s–2(c) of this title, damages for which the person would, but for section 1681s–2(c)
of this title, be liable to such residents as a result of the violation; or
(iii) damages of not more than $1,000 for each willful or negligent violation; and
(C) in the case of any successful action under subparagraph (A) or (B), shall be awarded
the costs of the action and reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court.
(2) Rights of Federal regulators
The State shall serve prior written notice of any action under paragraph (1) upon the
Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission or the appropriate Federal regulator determined
under subsection (b) and provide the Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission or
appropriate Federal regulator with a copy of its complaint, except in any case in which such
prior notice is not feasible, in which case the State shall serve such notice immediately upon
instituting such action. The Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission or appropriate Federal
regulator shall have the right—
(A) to intervene in the action;
(B) upon so intervening, to be heard on all matters arising therein;
(C) to remove the action to the appropriate United States district court; and
(D) to file petitions for appeal.
(3) Investigatory powers
For purposes of bringing any action under this subsection, nothing in this subsection shall
prevent the chief law enforcement officer, or an official or agency designated by a State, from
exercising the powers conferred on the chief law enforcement officer or such official by the
laws of such State to conduct investigations or to administer oaths or affirmations or to
compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary and other evidence.
(4) Limitation on State action while Federal action pending
If the Bureau, the Federal Trade Commission, or the appropriate Federal regulator has
instituted a civil action or an administrative action under section 8 of the Federal Deposit

Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1818] for a violation of this subchapter, no State may, during the
pendency of such action, bring an action under this section against any defendant named in
the complaint of the Bureau, the Federal Trade Commission, or the appropriate Federal
regulator for any violation of this subchapter that is alleged in that complaint.
(5) Limitations on State actions for certain violations
(A) Violation of injunction required
A State may not bring an action against a person under paragraph (1)(B) for a violation
described in any of paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1681s–2(c) of this title, unless—
(i) the person has been enjoined from committing the violation, in an action brought by
the State under paragraph (1)(A); and
(ii) the person has violated the injunction.
(B) Limitation on damages recoverable
In an action against a person under paragraph (1)(B) for a violation described in any of
paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1681s–2(c) of this title, a State may not recover any
damages incurred before the date of the violation of an injunction on which the action is
based.
(d) Enforcement under other authority
For the purpose of the exercise by any agency referred to in subsection (b) of its powers
under any Act referred to in that subsection, a violation of any requirement imposed under this
subchapter shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. In
addition to its powers under any provision of law specifically referred to in subsection (b), each
of the agencies referred to in that subsection may exercise, for the purpose of enforcing
compliance with any requirement imposed under this subchapter any other authority conferred
on it by law.
(e) Regulatory authority
(1) In general
The Bureau shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of
this subchapter, except with respect to sections 1681m(e) and 1681w of this title. The Bureau
may prescribe regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to administer and carry out the
purposes and objectives of this subchapter, and to prevent evasions thereof or to facilitate
compliance therewith. Except as provided in section 1029(a) of the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5519(a)], the regulations prescribed by the Bureau under
this subchapter shall apply to any person that is subject to this subchapter, notwithstanding
the enforcement authorities granted to other agencies under this section.
(2) Deference
Notwithstanding any power granted to any Federal agency under this subchapter, the
deference that a court affords to a Federal agency with respect to a determination made by
such agency relating to the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this subchapter that
is subject to the jurisdiction of such agency shall be applied as if that agency were the only
agency authorized to apply, enforce, interpret, or administer the provisions of this subchapter
2
The regulations prescribed by the Bureau under this subchapter shall apply to any person

that is subject to this subchapter, notwithstanding the enforcement authorities granted to other
agencies under this section.
(f) Coordination of consumer complaint investigations
(1) In general
Each consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title shall develop
and maintain procedures for the referral to each other such agency of any consumer
complaint received by the agency alleging identity theft, or requesting a fraud alert under
section 1681c–1 of this title or a block under section 1681c–2 of this title.
(2) Model form and procedure for reporting identity theft
The Commission,3 in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal banking
agencies, and the National Credit Union Administration, shall develop a model form and
model procedures to be used by consumers who are victims of identity theft for contacting
and informing creditors and consumer reporting agencies of the fraud.
(3) Annual summary reports
Each consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title shall submit an
annual summary report to the Bureau on consumer complaints received by the agency on
identity theft or fraud alerts.
(g) Bureau regulation of coding of trade names
If the Bureau determines that a person described in paragraph (9) of section 1681s–2(a) of
this title has not met the requirements of such paragraph, the Bureau shall take action to ensure
the person's compliance with such paragraph, which may include issuing model guidance or
prescribing reasonable policies and procedures, as necessary to ensure that such person
complies with such paragraph.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §621, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat.
1134; amended Pub. L. 98–443, §9(n), Oct. 4, 1984, 98 Stat. 1708; Pub. L. 101–73, title VII,
§744(l), Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 439; Pub. L. 102–242, title II, §212(c), Dec. 19, 1991, 105 Stat.
2300; Pub. L. 102–550, title XVI, §1604(a)(6), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 4082; Pub. L. 104–88,
title III, §314, Dec. 29, 1995, 109 Stat. 948; Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §§2416–2418, Sept.
30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–450 to 3009-452; Pub. L. 105–347, §6(6), Nov. 2, 1998, 112 Stat.
3211; Pub. L. 106–102, title V, §506(a), (b), Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1441, 1442; Pub. L.
108–159, title I, §153, title III, §312(e)(2), title IV, §412(e), title VIII, §811(f), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1966, 1993, 2003, 2012; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(A)–(C), (10), July 21, 2010,
124 Stat. 2087, 2088.)
References in Text
The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is act Sept. 26, 1914, ch.
311, 38 Stat. 717, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this
title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 58 of this title and Tables.
The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), is title
X of Pub. L. 111–203, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1955. Subtitles B (§§1021–1029A) and E
(§§1051–1058) of the Act are classified generally to parts B (§5511 et seq.) and E (§5561 et

seq.), respectively, of subchapter V of chapter 53 of Title 12, Banks and Banking. For complete
classification of subtitles B and E to the Code, see Tables.
Sections 25 and 25A of the Federal Reserve Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(A)(ii), are
classified to subchapters I (§601 et seq.) and II (§611 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 6 of Title
12, Banks and Banking.
The Federal Credit Union Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B), is act June 26, 1934, ch. 750,
48 Stat. 1216, which is classified generally to chapter 14 (§1751 et seq.) of Title 12. For
complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1751 of Title 12 and Tables.
The Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(E), is act Aug. 15, 1921,
ch. 64, 42 Stat. 159, which is classified to chapter 9 (§181 et seq.) of Title 7, Agriculture. For
complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 181 of Title 7 and Tables.
The Commodity Exchange Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(F), is act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 369,
42 Stat. 998, which is classified generally to chapter 1 (§1 et seq.) of Title 7, Agriculture. For
complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of Title 7 and Tables.
Codification
In subsec. (b)(1)(D), "part A of subtitle VII of title 49" substituted for "the Federal Aviation Act
of 1958 (49 App. U.S.C. 1301 et seq.)" and "that part" substituted for "that Act" on authority of
Pub. L. 103–272, §6(b), July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 1378, the first section of which enacted subtitles
II, III, and V to X of Title 49.
Amendments
2010—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(10)(A), added subsec. (a) and struck out
former subsec. (a) which related to enforcement by Federal Trade Commission.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(10)(B), added subsec. (b) and struck out former
subsec. (b) which related to enforcement under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act,
the Federal Credit Union Act, subtitle IV of title 49, part A of subtitle VII of title 49, and the
Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921.
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(10)(C), in introductory provisions, inserted "and the
Federal Trade Commission" before "or the appropriate" and before "or appropriate" in two
places.
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), in introductory provisions, substituted "provide the Bureau"
for "provide the Commission".
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(A), in introductory provisions, substituted "upon the Bureau" for
"upon the Federal Trade Commission" and "The Bureau" for "The Federal Trade Commission".
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(10)(D), inserted ", the Federal Trade Commission,"
before "or the appropriate" in two places.
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "complaint of the Bureau" for "complaint of the
Commission".

Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(A), substituted "If the Bureau" for "If the Federal Trade
Commission".
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(10)(E), added subsec. (e) and struck out former
subsec. (e) which related to prescription of regulations by certain Federal banking agencies, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Board of the National Credit Union
Administration.
Subsec. (f)(2). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(10)(F), substituted "the Federal Trade Commission,
the Federal banking agencies," for "the Federal banking agencies".
Subsec. (f)(3). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "the Bureau" for "the
Commission".
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(C), substituted "the Bureau" for "the Commission"
in two places.
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(B), substituted "Bureau" for "FTC" in heading.
2003—Subsec. (b)(1)(B). Pub. L. 108–159, §811(f), substituted "25A" for "25(a)".
Subsec. (c)(1)(B)(ii). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(e)(2)(A), substituted "described in any of
paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1681s–2(c)" for "of section 1681s–2(a)".
Subsec. (c)(5). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(e)(2)(B)(ii), substituted "certain violations" for "violation
of section 1681s–2(a)(1)" in heading.
Subsec. (c)(5)(A), (B). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(e)(2)(B)(i), substituted "described in any of
paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1681s–2(c)" for "of section 1681s–2(a)(1)".
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–159, §153, added subsec. (f).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–159, §412(e), added subsec. (g).
1999—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 106–102, §506(b), struck out par. (4) which read as follows:
"Neither the Commission nor any other agency referred to in subsection (b) of this section may
prescribe trade regulation rules or other regulations with respect to this subchapter."
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 106–102, §506(a)(1), struck out at the end "Notwithstanding the
preceding, no agency referred to in subsection (b) of this section may conduct an examination
of a bank, savings association, or credit union regarding compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter, except in response to a complaint (or if the agency otherwise has knowledge) that
the bank, savings association, or credit union has violated a provision of this subchapter, in
which case, the agency may conduct an examination as necessary to investigate the complaint.
If an agency determines during an investigation in response to a complaint that a violation of
this subchapter has occurred, the agency may, during its next 2 regularly scheduled
examinations of the bank, savings association, or credit union, examine for compliance with this
subchapter."

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 106–102, §506(a)(2), added subsec. (e) and struck out heading and text
of former subsec. (e). Text read as follows: "The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System may issue interpretations of any provision of this subchapter as such provision may
apply to any persons identified under paragraph (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this section,
or to the holding companies and affiliates of such persons, in consultation with Federal agencies
identified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this section."
1998—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 105–347 struck out "or (e)" after "subject to subsection (d)" in
introductory provisions.
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2416(b)(1), which directed the amendment of subsec.
(a) by inserting heading "Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission" before "Compliance with
the requirements", was executed by making the insertion after "(a)", to reflect the probable intent
of Congress and the amendment by Pub. L. 104–208, §2416(a). See below.
Pub. L. 104–208, §2416(a), inserted "(1)" after "(a)" and added pars. (2) to (4).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–208, §2416(b)(2), inserted heading and in introductory provisions
substituted "Compliance with the requirements imposed under this subchapter with respect to
consumer reporting agencies, persons who use consumer reports from such agencies, persons
who furnish information to such agencies, and users of information that are subject to
subsection (d) or (e) of section 1681m of this title shall be enforced under—" for "Compliance
with the requirements imposed under this subchapter with respect to consumer reporting
agencies and persons who use consumer reports from such agencies shall be enforced
under—".
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–208, §2417(2), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated
(d).
Pub. L. 104–208, §2416(c), inserted at end "Notwithstanding the preceding, no agency
referred to in subsection (b) of this section may conduct an examination of a bank, savings
association, or credit union regarding compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, except
in response to a complaint (or if the agency otherwise has knowledge) that the bank, savings
association, or credit union has violated a provision of this subchapter, in which case, the
agency may conduct an examination as necessary to investigate the complaint. If an agency
determines during an investigation in response to a complaint that a violation of this subchapter
has occurred, the agency may, during its next 2 regularly scheduled examinations of the bank,
savings association, or credit union, examine for compliance with this subchapter."
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2417(1), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d).
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 104–208, §2418, added subsec. (e).
1995—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 104–88 substituted "Secretary of Transportation, with respect
to all carriers subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board" for "Interstate
Commerce Commission with respect to any common carrier subject to those Acts".
1992—Subsec. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 102–550 substituted semicolon for period at end.

1991—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 102–242, §212(c)(2), inserted at end "The terms used in
paragraph (1) that are not defined in this subchapter or otherwise defined in section 3(s) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) shall have the meaning given to them in
section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101)."
Pub. L. 102–242, §212(c)(1), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as
follows: "section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the case of:
"(A) national banks, by the Comptroller of the Currency;
"(B) member banks of the Federal Reserve System (other than national banks), by the
Federal Reserve Board; and
"(C) banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than members of
the Federal Reserve System), by the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation."
1989—Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 101–73 amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par.
(2) read as follows: "section 5(d) of the Home Owners Loan Act of 1933, section 407 of the
National Housing Act, and sections 6(i) and 17 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, by the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board (acting directly or through the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation), in the case of any institution subject to any of those provisions;".
1984—Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 98–443 substituted "Secretary of Transportation" for "Civil
Aeronautics Board".
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Amendment by section 412(e) of Pub. L. 108–159 effective at end of 15-month period
beginning on Dec. 4, 2003, see section 412(g) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under
section 1681b of this title.
Effective Date of 1998 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 105–347 deemed to have same effective date as amendments made
by section 2403 of Pub. L. 104–208, see section 7 of Pub. L. 105–347, set out as a note under
section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.

Effective Date of 1995 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–88 effective Jan. 1, 1996, see section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88, set
out as an Effective Date note under section 1301 of Title 49, Transportation.
Effective Date of 1992 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 102–550 effective as if included in the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, Pub. L. 102–242, as of Dec. 19, 1991, see section
1609(a) of Pub. L. 102–550, set out as a note under section 191 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.
Effective Date of 1984 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 98–443 effective Jan. 1, 1985, see section 9(v) of Pub. L. 98–443, set
out as a note under section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.
Transfer of Functions
Functions vested in Administrator of National Credit Union Administration transferred and
vested in National Credit Union Administration Board pursuant to section 1752a of Title 12,
Banks and Banking.
1

So in original.

2

So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.

3

So in original. Probably should be "Bureau,".

§1681s–1. Information on overdue child support obligations
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, a consumer reporting agency shall
include in any consumer report furnished by the agency in accordance with section 1681b of
this title, any information on the failure of the consumer to pay overdue support which—
(1) is provided—
(A) to the consumer reporting agency by a State or local child support enforcement
agency; or
(B) to the consumer reporting agency and verified by any local, State, or Federal
Government agency; and
(2) antedates the report by 7 years or less.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §622, as added Pub. L. 102–537, §2(a), Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat.
3531.)
Prior Provisions

A prior section 622 of Pub. L. 90–321 was renumbered section 625 and is classified to section
1681t of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective Jan. 1, 1993, see section 2(d) of Pub. L. 102–537, set out as an Effective
Date of 1992 Amendment note under section 1681a of this title.

§1681s–2. Responsibilities of furnishers of information to consumer
reporting agencies
(a) Duty of furnishers of information to provide accurate information
(1) Prohibition
(A) Reporting information with actual knowledge of errors
A person shall not furnish any information relating to a consumer to any consumer
reporting agency if the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
information is inaccurate.
(B) Reporting information after notice and confirmation of errors
A person shall not furnish information relating to a consumer to any consumer reporting
agency if—
(i) the person has been notified by the consumer, at the address specified by the
person for such notices, that specific information is inaccurate; and
(ii) the information is, in fact, inaccurate.
(C) No address requirement
A person who clearly and conspicuously specifies to the consumer an address for notices
referred to in subparagraph (B) shall not be subject to subparagraph (A); however, nothing
in subparagraph (B) shall require a person to specify such an address.
(D) Definition
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term "reasonable cause to believe that the
information is inaccurate" means having specific knowledge, other than solely allegations
by the consumer, that would cause a reasonable person to have substantial doubts about
the accuracy of the information.
(E) Rehabilitation of private education loans
(i) In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a consumer may request a financial
institution to remove from a consumer report a reported default regarding a private
education loan, and such information shall not be considered inaccurate, if—
(I) the financial institution chooses to offer a loan rehabilitation program which
includes, without limitation, a requirement of the consumer to make consecutive
on-time monthly payments in a number that demonstrates, in the assessment of the
financial institution offering the loan rehabilitation program, a renewed ability and
willingness to repay the loan; and

(II) the requirements of the loan rehabilitation program described in subclause (I) are
successfully met.
(ii) Banking agencies
(I) In general
If a financial institution is supervised by a Federal banking agency, the financial
institution shall seek written approval concerning the terms and conditions of the loan
rehabilitation program described in clause (i) from the appropriate Federal banking
agency.
(II) Feedback
An appropriate Federal banking agency shall provide feedback to a financial
institution within 120 days of a request for approval under subclause (I).
(iii) Limitation
(I) In general
A consumer may obtain the benefits available under this subsection with respect to
rehabilitating a loan only 1 time per loan.
(II) Rule of construction
Nothing in this subparagraph may be construed to require a financial institution to
offer a loan rehabilitation program or to remove any reported default from a consumer
report as a consideration of a loan rehabilitation program, except as described in
clause (i).
(iv) Definitions
For purposes of this subparagraph—
(I) the term "appropriate Federal banking agency" has the meaning given the term in
section 1813 of title 12; and
(II) the term "private education loan" has the meaning given the term in section
1650(a) of this title.
(F) Reporting information during COVID–19 pandemic
(i) Definitions
In this subsection:
(I) Accommodation
The term "accommodation" includes an agreement to defer 1 or more payments,
make a partial payment, forbear any delinquent amounts, modify a loan or contract, or
any other assistance or relief granted to a consumer who is affected by the coronavirus
disease 2019 (COVID–19) pandemic during the covered period.
(II) Covered period
The term "covered period" means the period beginning on January 31, 2020 and
ending on the later of—
(aa) 120 days after March 27, 2020; or

(bb) 120 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning the
novel coronavirus disease (COVID–19) outbreak declared by the President on March
13, 2020 under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) terminates.
(ii) Reporting
Except as provided in clause (iii), if a furnisher makes an accommodation with respect
to 1 or more payments on a credit obligation or account of a consumer, and the consumer
makes the payments or is not required to make 1 or more payments pursuant to the
accommodation, the furnisher shall—
(I) report the credit obligation or account as current; or
(II) if the credit obligation or account was delinquent before the accommodation—
(aa) maintain the delinquent status during the period in which the accommodation
is in effect; and
(bb) if the consumer brings the credit obligation or account current during the
period described in item (aa), report the credit obligation or account as current.
(iii) Exception
Clause (ii) shall not apply with respect to a credit obligation or account of a consumer
that has been charged-off.
(2) Duty to correct and update information
A person who—
(A) regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to one or more
consumer reporting agencies about the person's transactions or experiences with any
consumer; and
(B) has furnished to a consumer reporting agency information that the person determines
is not complete or accurate,
shall promptly notify the consumer reporting agency of that determination and provide to the
agency any corrections to that information, or any additional information, that is necessary to
make the information provided by the person to the agency complete and accurate, and shall
not thereafter furnish to the agency any of the information that remains not complete or
accurate.
(3) Duty to provide notice of dispute
If the completeness or accuracy of any information furnished by any person to any
consumer reporting agency is disputed to such person by a consumer, the person may not
furnish the information to any consumer reporting agency without notice that such information
is disputed by the consumer.
(4) Duty to provide notice of closed accounts
A person who regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to a
consumer reporting agency regarding a consumer who has a credit account with that person
shall notify the agency of the voluntary closure of the account by the consumer, in information
regularly furnished for the period in which the account is closed.
(5) Duty to provide notice of delinquency of accounts

(A) In general
A person who furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency regarding a
delinquent account being placed for collection, charged to profit or loss, or subjected to any
similar action shall, not later than 90 days after furnishing the information, notify the agency
of the date of delinquency on the account, which shall be the month and year of the
commencement of the delinquency on the account that immediately preceded the action.
(B) Rule of construction
For purposes of this paragraph only, and provided that the consumer does not dispute
the information, a person that furnishes information on a delinquent account that is placed
for collection, charged for profit or loss, or subjected to any similar action, complies with this
paragraph, if—
(i) the person reports the same date of delinquency as that provided by the creditor to
which the account was owed at the time at which the commencement of the delinquency
occurred, if the creditor previously reported that date of delinquency to a consumer
reporting agency;
(ii) the creditor did not previously report the date of delinquency to a consumer
reporting agency, and the person establishes and follows reasonable procedures to
obtain the date of delinquency from the creditor or another reliable source and reports
that date to a consumer reporting agency as the date of delinquency; or
(iii) the creditor did not previously report the date of delinquency to a consumer
reporting agency and the date of delinquency cannot be reasonably obtained as provided
in clause (ii), the person establishes and follows reasonable procedures to ensure the
date reported as the date of delinquency precedes the date on which the account is
placed for collection, charged to profit or loss, or subjected to any similar action, and
reports such date to the credit reporting agency.
(6) Duties of furnishers upon notice of identity theft-related information
(A) Reasonable procedures
A person that furnishes information to any consumer reporting agency shall have in place
reasonable procedures to respond to any notification that it receives from a consumer
reporting agency under section 1681c–2 of this title relating to information resulting from
identity theft, to prevent that person from refurnishing such blocked information.
(B) Information alleged to result from identity theft
If a consumer submits an identity theft report to a person who furnishes information to a
consumer reporting agency at the address specified by that person for receiving such
reports stating that information maintained by such person that purports to relate to the
consumer resulted from identity theft, the person may not furnish such information that
purports to relate to the consumer to any consumer reporting agency, unless the person
subsequently knows or is informed by the consumer that the information is correct.
(7) Negative information
(A) Notice to consumer required
(i) In general

If any financial institution that extends credit and regularly and in the ordinary course of
business furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency described in section
1681a(p) of this titlefurnishes negative information to such an agency regarding credit
extended to a customer, the financial institution shall provide a notice of such furnishing
of negative information, in writing, to the customer.
(ii) Notice effective for subsequent submissions
After providing such notice, the financial institution may submit additional negative
information to a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title with
respect to the same transaction, extension of credit, account, or customer without
providing additional notice to the customer.
(B) Time of notice
(i) In general
The notice required under subparagraph (A) shall be provided to the customer prior to,
or no later than 30 days after, furnishing the negative information to a consumer reporting
agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title.
(ii) Coordination with new account disclosures
If the notice is provided to the customer prior to furnishing the negative information to a
consumer reporting agency, the notice may not be included in the initial disclosures
provided under section 1637(a) of this title.
(C) Coordination with other disclosures
The notice required under subparagraph (A)—
(i) may be included on or with any notice of default, any billing statement, or any other
materials provided to the customer; and
(ii) must be clear and conspicuous.
(D) Model disclosure
(i) Duty of Bureau
The Bureau shall prescribe a brief model disclosure that a financial institution may use
to comply with subparagraph (A), which shall not exceed 30 words.
(ii) Use of model not required
No provision of this paragraph may be construed to require a financial institution to use
any such model form prescribed by the Bureau.
(iii) Compliance using model
A financial institution shall be deemed to be in compliance with subparagraph (A) if the
financial institution uses any model form prescribed by the Bureau under this
subparagraph, or the financial institution uses any such model form and rearranges its
format.
(E) Use of notice without submitting negative information
No provision of this paragraph shall be construed as requiring a financial institution that
has provided a customer with a notice described in subparagraph (A) to furnish negative
information about the customer to a consumer reporting agency.

(F) Safe harbor
A financial institution shall not be liable for failure to perform the duties required by this
paragraph if, at the time of the failure, the financial institution maintained reasonable
policies and procedures to comply with this paragraph or the financial institution reasonably
believed that the institution is prohibited, by law, from contacting the consumer.
(G) Definitions
For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply:
(i) Negative information
The term "negative information" means information concerning a customer's
delinquencies, late payments, insolvency, or any form of default.
(ii) Customer; financial institution
The terms "customer" and "financial institution" have the same meanings as in section
6809 of this title.
(8) Ability of consumer to dispute information directly with furnisher
(A) In general
The Bureau, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal banking
agencies, and the National Credit Union Administration, shall prescribe regulations that
shall identify the circumstances under which a furnisher shall be required to reinvestigate a
dispute concerning the accuracy of information contained in a consumer report on the
consumer, based on a direct request of a consumer.
(B) Considerations
In prescribing regulations under subparagraph (A), the agencies shall weigh—
(i) the benefits to consumers with the costs on furnishers and the credit reporting
system;
(ii) the impact on the overall accuracy and integrity of consumer reports of any such
requirements;
(iii) whether direct contact by the consumer with the furnisher would likely result in the
most expeditious resolution of any such dispute; and
(iv) the potential impact on the credit reporting process if credit repair organizations, as
defined in section 1679a(3) of this title, including entities that would be a credit repair
organization, but for section 1679a(3)(B)(i) of this title, are able to circumvent the
prohibition in subparagraph (G).
(C) Applicability
Subparagraphs (D) through (G) shall apply in any circumstance identified under the
regulations promulgated under subparagraph (A).
(D) Submitting a notice of dispute
A consumer who seeks to dispute the accuracy of information shall provide a dispute
notice directly to such person at the address specified by the person for such notices that—
(i) identifies the specific information that is being disputed;
(ii) explains the basis for the dispute; and

(iii) includes all supporting documentation required by the furnisher to substantiate the
basis of the dispute.
(E) Duty of person after receiving notice of dispute
After receiving a notice of dispute from a consumer pursuant to subparagraph (D), the
person that provided the information in dispute to a consumer reporting agency shall—
(i) conduct an investigation with respect to the disputed information;
(ii) review all relevant information provided by the consumer with the notice;
(iii) complete such person's investigation of the dispute and report the results of the
investigation to the consumer before the expiration of the period under section
1681i(a)(1) of this title within which a consumer reporting agency would be required to
complete its action if the consumer had elected to dispute the information under that
section; and
(iv) if the investigation finds that the information reported was inaccurate, promptly
notify each consumer reporting agency to which the person furnished the inaccurate
information of that determination and provide to the agency any correction to that
information that is necessary to make the information provided by the person accurate.
(F) Frivolous or irrelevant dispute
(i) In general
This paragraph shall not apply if the person receiving a notice of a dispute from a
consumer reasonably determines that the dispute is frivolous or irrelevant, including—
(I) by reason of the failure of a consumer to provide sufficient information to
investigate the disputed information; or
(II) the submission by a consumer of a dispute that is substantially the same as a
dispute previously submitted by or for the consumer, either directly to the person or
through a consumer reporting agency under subsection (b), with respect to which the
person has already performed the person's duties under this paragraph or subsection
(b), as applicable.
(ii) Notice of determination
Upon making any determination under clause (i) that a dispute is frivolous or irrelevant,
the person shall notify the consumer of such determination not later than 5 business days
after making such determination, by mail or, if authorized by the consumer for that
purpose, by any other means available to the person.
(iii) Contents of notice
A notice under clause (ii) shall include—
(I) the reasons for the determination under clause (i); and
(II) identification of any information required to investigate the disputed information,
which may consist of a standardized form describing the general nature of such
information.
(G) Exclusion of credit repair organizations
This paragraph shall not apply if the notice of the dispute is submitted by, is prepared on
behalf of the consumer by, or is submitted on a form supplied to the consumer by, a credit

repair organization, as defined in section 1679a(3) of this title, or an entity that would be a
credit repair organization, but for section 1679a(3)(B)(i) of this title.
(9) Duty to provide notice of status as medical information furnisher
A person whose primary business is providing medical services, products, or devices, or
the person's agent or assignee, who furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency on
a consumer shall be considered a medical information furnisher for purposes of this
subchapter, and shall notify the agency of such status.
(b) Duties of furnishers of information upon notice of dispute
(1) In general
After receiving notice pursuant to section 1681i(a)(2) of this title of a dispute with regard to
the completeness or accuracy of any information provided by a person to a consumer
reporting agency, the person shall—
(A) conduct an investigation with respect to the disputed information;
(B) review all relevant information provided by the consumer reporting agency pursuant
to section 1681i(a)(2) of this title;
(C) report the results of the investigation to the consumer reporting agency;
(D) if the investigation finds that the information is incomplete or inaccurate, report those
results to all other consumer reporting agencies to which the person furnished the
information and that compile and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis; and
(E) if an item of information disputed by a consumer is found to be inaccurate or
incomplete or cannot be verified after any reinvestigation under paragraph (1), for purposes
of reporting to a consumer reporting agency only, as appropriate, based on the results of
the reinvestigation promptly—
(i) modify that item of information;
(ii) delete that item of information; or
(iii) permanently block the reporting of that item of information.
(2) Deadline
A person shall complete all investigations, reviews, and reports required under paragraph
(1) regarding information provided by the person to a consumer reporting agency, before the
expiration of the period under section 1681i(a)(1) of this title within which the consumer
reporting agency is required to complete actions required by that section regarding that
information.
(c) Limitation on liability
Except as provided in section 1681s(c)(1)(B) of this title, sections 1681n and 1681o of this
title do not apply to any violation of—
(1) subsection (a) of this section, including any regulations issued thereunder;
(2) subsection (e) of this section, except that nothing in this paragraph shall limit, expand, or
otherwise affect liability under section 1681n or 1681o of this title, as applicable, for violations
of subsection (b) of this section; or
(3) subsection (e) of section 1681m of this title.
(d) Limitation on enforcement

The provisions of law described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (c) (other than
with respect to the exception described in paragraph (2) of subsection (c)) shall be enforced
exclusively as provided under section 1681s of this title by the Federal agencies and officials
and the State officials identified in section 1681s of this title.
(e) Accuracy guidelines and regulations required
(1) Guidelines
The Bureau shall, with respect to persons or entities that are subject to the enforcement
authority of the Bureau under section 1681s of this title—
(A) establish and maintain guidelines for use by each person that furnishes information to
a consumer reporting agency regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information
relating to consumers that such entities furnish to consumer reporting agencies, and update
such guidelines as often as necessary; and
(B) prescribe regulations requiring each person that furnishes information to a consumer
reporting agency to establish reasonable policies and procedures for implementing the
guidelines established pursuant to subparagraph (A).
(2) Criteria
In developing the guidelines required by paragraph (1)(A), the Bureau shall—
(A) identify patterns, practices, and specific forms of activity that can compromise the
accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies;
(B) review the methods (including technological means) used to furnish information
relating to consumers to consumer reporting agencies;
(C) determine whether persons that furnish information to consumer reporting agencies
maintain and enforce policies to ensure the accuracy and integrity of information furnished
to consumer reporting agencies; and
(D) examine the policies and processes that persons that furnish information to consumer
reporting agencies employ to conduct reinvestigations and correct inaccurate information
relating to consumers that has been furnished to consumer reporting agencies.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §623, as added Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2413(a)(2), Sept. 30,
1996, 110 Stat. 3009–447; amended Pub. L. 108–159, title I, §154(a), title II, §217(a), title III,
§§312(a)–(e)(1), 314(b), title IV, §412(a), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1966, 1986, 1989-1993, 1995,
2002; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(2)(D), (11), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2087, 2090; Pub. L.
115–174, title VI, §602(a), May 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1366; Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, §4021,
Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 489.)
References in Text
The National Emergencies Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(F)(i)(II)(bb), is Pub. L. 94–412,
Sept. 14, 1976, 90 Stat. 1255, which is classified principally to chapter 34 (§1601 et seq.) of
Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
Short Title note set out under section 1601 of Title 50 and Tables.
Prior Provisions
A prior section 623 of Pub. L. 90–321 was renumbered section 625 and is classified to section
1681t of this title.

Amendments
2020—Subsec. (a)(1)(F). Pub. L. 116–136 added subpar. (F).
2018—Subsec. (a)(1)(E). Pub. L. 115–174 added subpar. (E).
2010—Subsec. (a)(7)(D). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(11)(A), added subpar. (D) and struck out
former subpar. (D) which related to duty of Board to prescribe a model disclosure.
Subsec. (a)(8)(A). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(11)(B), which directed amendment of subpar.
(A) by inserting ", in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal banking
agencies, and the National Credit Union Administration," before "shall jointly", was executed by
making the insertion before "shall prescribe", to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the
amendment by Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(D). See below.
Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(2)(D), substituted "The Bureau shall" for "The Federal banking
agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Commission shall jointly".
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(11)(C), added subsec. (e) and struck out former
subsec. (e) which related to establishment and maintenance of accuracy guidelines and
prescription of implementing regulations by the Federal banking agencies, the National Credit
Union Administration, and the Commission.
2003—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(b)(1), substituted "knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the information is inaccurate" for "knows or consciously avoids knowing
that the information is inaccurate".
Subsec. (a)(1)(D). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(b)(2), added subpar. (D).
Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(d), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A),
inserted heading, inserted "date of delinquency on the account, which shall be the" before
"month" and "on the account" before "that immediately preceded", and added subpar. (B).
Subsec. (a)(6). Pub. L. 108–159, §154(a), added par. (6).
Subsec. (a)(7). Pub. L. 108–159, §217(a), added par. (7).
Subsec. (a)(8). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(c), added par. (8).
Subsec. (a)(9). Pub. L. 108–159, §412(a), added par. (9).
Subsec. (b)(1)(E). Pub. L. 108–159, §314(b), added subpar. (E).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(e)(1), added subsec. (c) and struck out heading and text
of former subsec. (c). Text read as follows: "Sections 1681n and 1681o of this title do not apply
to any failure to comply with subsection (a) of this section, except as provided in section
1681s(c)(1)(B) of this title."
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(e)(1), added subsec. (d) and struck out heading and text
of former subsec. (d). Text read as follows: "Subsection (a) of this section shall be enforced
exclusively under section 1681s of this title by the Federal agencies and officials and the State
officials identified in that section."

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–159, §312(a), added subsec. (e).
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Amendment by section 412(a) of Pub. L. 108–159 effective at end of 15-month period
beginning on Dec. 4, 2003, see section 412(g) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under
section 1681b of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for early compliance, see
section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under
section 1681a of this title.
Model Disclosure Form
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §217(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1987, provided that: "Before the end
of the 6-month period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003], the Board
shall adopt the model disclosure required under the amendment made by subsection (a)
[amending this section] after notice duly given in the Federal Register and an opportunity for
public comment in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code."
[For definitions of terms used in section 217(b) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]

§1681s–3. Affiliate sharing
(a) Special rule for solicitation for purposes of marketing
(1) Notice
Any person that receives from another person related to it by common ownership or
affiliated by corporate control a communication of information that would be a consumer
report, but for clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of section 1681a(d)(2)(A) of this title, may not use the
information to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer about its products or
services, unless—
(A) it is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the consumer that the information may be
communicated among such persons for purposes of making such solicitations to the
consumer; and
(B) the consumer is provided an opportunity and a simple method to prohibit the making
of such solicitations to the consumer by such person.

(2) Consumer choice
(A) In general
The notice required under paragraph (1) shall allow the consumer the opportunity to
prohibit all solicitations referred to in such paragraph, and may allow the consumer to
choose from different options when electing to prohibit the sending of such solicitations,
including options regarding the types of entities and information covered, and which
methods of delivering solicitations the consumer elects to prohibit.
(B) Format
Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the notice required under paragraph (1) shall be
clear, conspicuous, and concise, and any method provided under paragraph (1)(B) shall be
simple. The regulations prescribed to implement this section shall provide specific guidance
regarding how to comply with such standards.
(3) Duration
(A) In general
The election of a consumer pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) to prohibit the making of
solicitations shall be effective for at least 5 years, beginning on the date on which the
person receives the election of the consumer, unless the consumer requests that such
election be revoked.
(B) Notice upon expiration of effective period
At such time as the election of a consumer pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) is no longer
effective, a person may not use information that the person receives in the manner
described in paragraph (1) to make any solicitation for marketing purposes to the consumer,
unless the consumer receives a notice and an opportunity, using a simple method, to
extend the opt-out for another period of at least 5 years, pursuant to the procedures
described in paragraph (1).
(4) Scope
This section shall not apply to a person—
(A) using information to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer with
whom the person has a pre-existing business relationship;
(B) using information to facilitate communications to an individual for whose benefit the
person provides employee benefit or other services pursuant to a contract with an employer
related to and arising out of the current employment relationship or status of the individual
as a participant or beneficiary of an employee benefit plan;
(C) using information to perform services on behalf of another person related by common
ownership or affiliated by corporate control, except that this subparagraph shall not be
construed as permitting a person to send solicitations on behalf of another person, if such
other person would not be permitted to send the solicitation on its own behalf as a result of
the election of the consumer to prohibit solicitations under paragraph (1)(B);
(D) using information in response to a communication initiated by the consumer;
(E) using information in response to solicitations authorized or requested by the
consumer; or

(F) if compliance with this section by that person would prevent compliance by that
person with any provision of State insurance laws pertaining to unfair discrimination in any
State in which the person is lawfully doing business.
(5) No retroactivity
This subsection shall not prohibit the use of information to send a solicitation to a consumer
if such information was received prior to the date on which persons are required to comply
with regulations implementing this subsection.
(b) Notice for other purposes permissible
A notice or other disclosure under this section may be coordinated and consolidated with any
other notice required to be issued under any other provision of law by a person that is subject to
this section, and a notice or other disclosure that is equivalent to the notice required by
subsection (a), and that is provided by a person described in subsection (a) to a consumer
together with disclosures required by any other provision of law, shall satisfy the requirements of
subsection (a).
(c) User requirements
Requirements with respect to the use by a person of information received from another
person related to it by common ownership or affiliated by corporate control, such as the
requirements of this section, constitute requirements with respect to the exchange of information
among persons affiliated by common ownership or common corporate control, within the
meaning of section 1681t(b)(2) of this title.
(d) Definitions
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) Pre-existing business relationship
The term "pre-existing business relationship" means a relationship between a person, or a
person's licensed agent, and a consumer, based on—
(A) a financial contract between a person and a consumer which is in force;
(B) the purchase, rental, or lease by the consumer of that person's goods or services, or
a financial transaction (including holding an active account or a policy in force or having
another continuing relationship) between the consumer and that person during the
18-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a
solicitation covered by this section;
(C) an inquiry or application by the consumer regarding a product or service offered by
that person, during the 3-month period immediately preceding the date on which the
consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this section; or
(D) any other pre-existing customer relationship defined in the regulations implementing
this section.
(2) Solicitation
The term "solicitation" means the marketing of a product or service initiated by a person to
a particular consumer that is based on an exchange of information described in subsection
(a), and is intended to encourage the consumer to purchase such product or service, but does

not include communications that are directed at the general public or determined not to be a
solicitation by the regulations prescribed under this section.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §624, as added Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §214(a)(2), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1980.)
Prior Provisions
A prior section 624 of Pub. L. 90–321 was renumbered section 625 and is classified to section
1681t of this title.
Another prior section 624 of Pub. L. 90–321 was renumbered section 626 and is classified to
section 1681u of this title.
Effective Date
Section subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal
Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see section 3 of
Pub. L. 108–159, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 1681 of
this title.
Regulations
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §214(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1982, as amended by Pub. L.
111–203, title X, §1088(b)(3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2092, provided that:
"(1) In general.—Regulations to carry out section 624 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15
U.S.C. 1681s–3), shall be prescribed, as described in paragraph (2), by—
"(A) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, with respect to entities subject to its
enforcement authorities;
"(B) the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to entities subject to its
enforcement authorities; and
"(C) the Bureau, with respect to other entities subject to this Act [see Short Title of 2003
Amendment note set out under section 1601 of this title].
"(2) Coordination.—Each agency required to prescribe regulations under paragraph (1) shall
consult and coordinate with each other such agency so that, to the extent possible, the
regulations prescribed by each such entity are consistent and comparable with the regulations
prescribed by each other such agency.
"(3) Considerations.—In promulgating regulations under this subsection, each agency
referred to in paragraph (1) shall—
"(A) ensure that affiliate sharing notification methods provide a simple means for
consumers to make determinations and choices under section 624 of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681s–3], as added by this section;
"(B) consider the affiliate sharing notification practices employed on the date of
enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2003] by persons that will be subject to that section 624; and

"(C) ensure that notices and disclosures may be coordinated and consolidated, as
provided in subsection (b) of that section 624.
"(4) Timing.—Regulations required by this subsection shall—
"(A) be issued in final form not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this Act
[Dec. 4, 2003]; and
"(B) become effective not later than 6 months after the date on which they are issued in
final form."
[For definitions of terms used in section 214(b) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]
Studies of Information Sharing Practices
Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §214(e), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1983, as amended by Pub. L.
111–203, title X, §1088(b)(4), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2092, provided that:
"(1) In general.—The Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Administration,
and the Bureau shall jointly conduct regular studies of the consumer information sharing
practices by financial institutions and other persons that are creditors or users of consumer
reports with their affiliates.
"(2) Matters for study.—In conducting the studies required by paragraph (1), the agencies
described in paragraph (1) shall—
"(A) identify—
"(i) the purposes for which financial institutions and other creditors and users of
consumer reports share consumer information;
"(ii) the types of information shared by such entities with their affiliates;
"(iii) the number of choices provided to consumers with respect to the control of such
sharing, and the degree to and manner in which consumers exercise such choices, if at all;
and
"(iv) whether such entities share or may share personally identifiable transaction or
experience information with affiliates for purposes—
"(I) that are related to employment or hiring, including whether the person that is
the subject of such information is given notice of such sharing, and the specific uses of
such shared information; or
"(II) of general publication of such information; and
"(B) specifically examine the information sharing practices that financial institutions and
other creditors and users of consumer reports and their affiliates employ for the purpose of
making underwriting decisions or credit evaluations of consumers.
"(3) Reports.—
"(A) Initial report.—Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4,
2003], the Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, and the
Commission shall jointly submit a report to the Congress on the results of the initial study

conducted in accordance with this subsection, together with any recommendations for
legislative or regulatory action.
"(B) Followup reports.—The Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union
Administration, and the Commission shall, not less frequently than once every 3 years
following the date of submission of the initial report under subparagraph (A), jointly submit a
report to the Congress that, together with any recommendations for legislative or regulatory
action—
"(i) documents any changes in the areas of study referred to in paragraph (2)(A)
occurring since the date of submission of the previous report;
"(ii) identifies any changes in the practices of financial institutions and other creditors
and users of consumer reports in sharing consumer information with their affiliates for the
purpose of making underwriting decisions or credit evaluations of consumers occurring
since the date of submission of the previous report; and
"(iii) examines the effects that changes described in clause (ii) have had, if any, on
the degree to which such affiliate sharing practices reduce the need for financial institutions,
creditors, and other users of consumer reports to rely on consumer reports for such
decisions."
[For definitions of terms used in section 214(e) of Pub. L. 108–159, set out above, see section
2 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a Definitions note under section 1681 of this title.]

§1681t. Relation to State laws
(a) In general
Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), this subchapter does not annul, alter, affect, or
exempt any person subject to the provisions of this subchapter from complying with the laws of
any State with respect to the collection, distribution, or use of any information on consumers, or
for the prevention or mitigation of identity theft, except to the extent that those laws are
inconsistent with any provision of this subchapter, and then only to the extent of the
inconsistency.
(b) General exceptions
No requirement or prohibition may be imposed under the laws of any State—
(1) with respect to any subject matter regulated under—
(A) subsection (c) or (e) of section 1681b of this title, relating to the prescreening of
consumer reports;
(B) section 1681i of this title, relating to the time by which a consumer reporting agency
must take any action, including the provision of notification to a consumer or other person,
in any procedure related to the disputed accuracy of information in a consumer's file, except
that this subparagraph shall not apply to any State law in effect on September 30, 1996;
(C) subsections (a) and (b) of section 1681m of this title, relating to the duties of a person
who takes any adverse action with respect to a consumer;

(D) section 1681m(d) of this title, relating to the duties of persons who use a consumer
report of a consumer in connection with any credit or insurance transaction that is not
initiated by the consumer and that consists of a firm offer of credit or insurance;
(E) section 1681c of this title, relating to information contained in consumer reports,
except that this subparagraph shall not apply to any State law in effect on September 30,
1996;
(F) section 1681s–2 of this title, relating to the responsibilities of persons who furnish
information to consumer reporting agencies, except that this paragraph shall not apply—
(i) with respect to section 54A(a) of chapter 93 of the Massachusetts Annotated Laws
(as in effect on September 30, 1996); or
(ii) with respect to section 1785.25(a) of the California Civil Code (as in effect on
September 30, 1996);
(G) section 1681g(e) of this title, relating to information available to victims under section
1681g(e) of this title;
(H) section 1681s–3 of this title, relating to the exchange and use of information to make
a solicitation for marketing purposes;
(I) section 1681m(h) of this title, relating to the duties of users of consumer reports to
provide notice with respect to terms in certain credit transactions;
(J) subsections (i) and (j) of section 1681c–1 of this title relating to security freezes; or
(K) subsection (k) of section 1681c–1 of this title, relating to credit monitoring for active
duty military consumers, as defined in that subsection;
(2) with respect to the exchange of information among persons affiliated by common
ownership or common corporate control, except that this paragraph shall not apply with
respect to subsection (a) or (c)(1) of section 2480e of title 9, Vermont Statutes Annotated (as
in effect on September 30, 1996);
(3) with respect to the disclosures required to be made under subsection (c), (d), (e), or (g)
of section 1681g of this title, or subsection (f) of section 1681g of this title relating to the
disclosure of credit scores for credit granting purposes, except that this paragraph—
(A) shall not apply with respect to sections 1785.10, 1785.16, and 1785.20.2 of the
California Civil Code (as in effect on December 4, 2003) and section 1785.15 through
section 1785.15.2 of such Code (as in effect on such date);
(B) shall not apply with respect to sections 5–3–106(2) and 212–14.3–104.3 of the
Colorado Revised Statutes (as in effect on December 4, 2003); and
(C) shall not be construed as limiting, annulling, affecting, or superseding any provision of
the laws of any State regulating the use in an insurance activity, or regulating disclosures
concerning such use, of a credit-based insurance score of a consumer by any person
engaged in the business of insurance;
(4) with respect to the frequency of any disclosure under section 1681j(a) of this title, except
that this paragraph shall not apply—
(A) with respect to section 12–14.3–105(1)(d) of the Colorado Revised Statutes (as in
effect on December 4, 2003);

(B) with respect to section 10–1–393(29)(C) of the Georgia Code (as in effect on
December 4, 2003);
(C) with respect to section 1316.2 of title 10 of the Maine Revised Statutes (as in effect
on December 4, 2003);
(D) with respect to sections 14–1209(a)(1) and 14–1209(b)(1)(i) of the Commercial Law
Article of the Code of Maryland (as in effect on December 4, 2003);
(E) with respect to section 59(d) and section 59(e) of chapter 93 of the General Laws of
Massachusetts (as in effect on December 4, 2003);
(F) with respect to section 56:11–37.10(a)(1) of the New Jersey Revised Statutes (as in
effect on December 4, 2003); or
(G) with respect to section 2480c(a)(1) of title 9 of the Vermont Statutes Annotated (as in
effect on December 4, 2003); or
(5) with respect to the conduct required by the specific provisions of—
(A) section 1681c(g) of this title;
(B) section 1681c–1 of this title;
(C) section 1681c–2 of this title;
(D) section 1681g(a)(1)(A) of this title;
(E) section 1681j(a) of this title;
(F) subsections (e), (f), and (g) of section 1681m of this title;
(G) section 1681s(f) of this title;
(H) section 1681s–2(a)(6) of this title; or
(I) section 1681w of this title.
(c) "Firm offer of credit or insurance" defined
Notwithstanding any definition of the term "firm offer of credit or insurance" (or any equivalent
term) under the laws of any State, the definition of that term contained in section 1681a(l) of this
title shall be construed to apply in the enforcement and interpretation of the laws of any State
governing consumer reports.
(d) Limitations
Subsections (b) and (c) do not affect any settlement, agreement, or consent judgment
between any State Attorney General and any consumer reporting agency in effect on
September 30, 1996.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §625, formerly §622, as added Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, §601, Oct. 26,
1970, 84 Stat. 1136; renumbered §623, Pub. L. 102–537, §2(a), Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3531;
renumbered §624 and amended Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §§2413(a)(1), 2419, Sept. 30,
1996, 110 Stat. 3009–447, 3009-452; renumbered §625 and amended Pub. L. 108–159, title I,
§151(a)(2), title II, §§212(e), 214(a)(1), (c)(2), title III, §311(b), title VII, §711, Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1964, 1977, 1980, 1983, 1989, 2011; Pub. L. 115–174, title III, §§301(b), 302(d)(2), May
24, 2018, 132 Stat. 1332, 1335.)
Prior Provisions
A prior section 625 of Pub. L. 90–321 was renumbered section 626 and is classified to section
1681u of this title.

Amendments
2018—Subsec. (b)(1)(J). Pub. L. 115–174, §301(b), added subpar. (J).
Subsec. (b)(1)(K). Pub. L. 115–174, §302(d)(2), added subpar. (K).
2003—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108–159, §711(1), inserted "or for the prevention or mitigation of
identity theft," after "information on consumers,".
Subsec. (b)(1)(E). Pub. L. 108–159, §214(c)(2)(A), struck out "or" after semicolon at end.
Subsec. (b)(1)(G). Pub. L. 108–159, §151(a)(2), added subpar. (G).
Subsec. (b)(1)(H). Pub. L. 108–159, §214(c)(2)(B), added subpar. (H).
Subsec. (b)(1)(I). Pub. L. 108–159, §311(b), added subpar. (I).
Subsec. (b)(3), (4). Pub. L. 108–159, §212(e), added pars. (3) and (4) and struck out former
par. (3) which read as follows: "with respect to the form and content of any disclosure required
to be made under section 1681g(c) of this title."
Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 108–159, §711(2), added par. (5).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–159, §711(3), substituted "(b) and (c)" for "(b) and (c)—", struck out
par. (1) designation before "do not affect", substituted "1996." for "1996; and", and struck out
par. (2) which read as follows:
"(2) do not apply to any provision of State law (including any provision of a State constitution)
that—
"(A) is enacted after January 1, 2004;
"(B) states explicitly that the provision is intended to supplement this subchapter; and
"(C) gives greater protection to consumers than is provided under this subchapter."
1996—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208, §2419(1), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a),
inserted heading, and substituted "Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), this
subchapter" for "This subchapter".
Subsecs. (b) to (d). Pub. L. 104–208, §2419(2), added subsecs. (b) to (d).
Effective Date of 2018 Amendment
Amendment by section 301(b) of Pub. L. 115–174 effective 120 days after May 24, 2018, see
section 301(c) of Pub. L. 115–174, set out as a note under section 1681c–1 of this title.
Amendment by section 302(d)(2) of Pub. L. 115–174 effective 1 year after May 24, 2018, see
section 302(e) of Pub. L. 115–174, set out as a note under section 1681a of this title.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.

Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective 365 days after Sept. 30, 1996, with special rule for
early compliance, see section 2420 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1681a
of this title.
Effective Date
Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970,
see section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321, as added by Pub. L. 91–508, set out as a note under
section 1681 of this title.

§1681u. Disclosures to FBI for counterintelligence purposes
(a) Identity of financial institutions
Notwithstanding section 1681b of this title or any other provision of this subchapter, a
consumer reporting agency shall furnish to the Federal Bureau of Investigation the names and
addresses of all financial institutions (as that term is defined in section 3401 of title 12) at which
a consumer maintains or has maintained an account, to the extent that information is in the files
of the agency, when presented with a written request for that information that includes a term
that specifically identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for the production of
that information, signed by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or the Director's
designee in a position not lower than Deputy Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a
Special Agent in Charge of a Bureau field office designated by the Director, which certifies
compliance with this section. The Director or the Director's designee may make such a
certification only if the Director or the Director's designee has determined in writing, that such
information is sought for the conduct of an authorized investigation to protect against
international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities, provided that such an investigation
of a United States person is not conducted solely upon the basis of activities protected by the
first amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
(b) Identifying information
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1681b of this title or any other provision of this
subchapter, a consumer reporting agency shall furnish identifying information respecting a
consumer, limited to name, address, former addresses, places of employment, or former places
of employment, to the Federal Bureau of Investigation when presented with a written request
that includes a term that specifically identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for
the production of that information, signed by the Director or the Director's designee in a position
not lower than Deputy Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a Special Agent in Charge
of a Bureau field office designated by the Director, which certifies compliance with this
subsection. The Director or the Director's designee may make such a certification only if the
Director or the Director's designee has determined in writing that such information is sought for
the conduct of an authorized investigation to protect against international terrorism or
clandestine intelligence activities, provided that such an investigation of a United States person
is not conducted solely upon the basis of activities protected by the first amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.

(c) Court order for disclosure of consumer reports
Notwithstanding section 1681b of this title or any other provision of this subchapter, if
requested in writing by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or a designee of the
Director in a position not lower than Deputy Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a
Special Agent in Charge in a Bureau field office designated by the Director, a court may issue
an order ex parte, which shall include a term that specifically identifies a consumer or account to
be used as the basis for the production of the information, directing a consumer reporting
agency to furnish a consumer report to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, upon a showing in
camera that the consumer report is sought for the conduct of an authorized investigation to
protect against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities, provided that such an
investigation of a United States person is not conducted solely upon the basis of activities
protected by the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The terms of an order
issued under this subsection shall not disclose that the order is issued for purposes of a
counterintelligence investigation.
(d) Prohibition of certain disclosure
(1) Prohibition
(A) In general
If a certification is issued under subparagraph (B) and notice of the right to judicial review
under subsection (e) is provided, no consumer reporting agency that receives a request
under subsection (a) or (b) or an order under subsection (c), or officer, employee, or agent
thereof, shall disclose or specify in any consumer report, that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has sought or obtained access to information or records under subsection (a),
(b), or (c).
(B) Certification
The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall apply if the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, or a designee of the Director whose rank shall be no lower than Deputy
Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a Special Agent in Charge of a Bureau field
office, certifies that the absence of a prohibition of disclosure under this subsection may
result in—
(i) a danger to the national security of the United States;
(ii) interference with a criminal, counterterrorism, or counterintelligence investigation;
(iii) interference with diplomatic relations; or
(iv) danger to the life or physical safety of any person.
(2) Exception
(A) In general
A consumer reporting agency that receives a request under subsection (a) or (b) or an
order under subsection (c), or officer, employee, or agent thereof, may disclose information
otherwise subject to any applicable nondisclosure requirement to—
(i) those persons to whom disclosure is necessary in order to comply with the request;
(ii) an attorney in order to obtain legal advice or assistance regarding the request; or
(iii) other persons as permitted by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation or
the designee of the Director.

(B) Application
A person to whom disclosure is made under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the
nondisclosure requirements applicable to a person to whom a request under subsection (a)
or (b) or an order under subsection (c) is issued in the same manner as the person to whom
the request is issued.
(C) Notice
Any recipient that discloses to a person described in subparagraph (A) information
otherwise subject to a nondisclosure requirement shall inform the person of the applicable
nondisclosure requirement.
(D) Identification of disclosure recipients
At the request of the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the designee of
the Director, any person making or intending to make a disclosure under clause (i) or (iii) of
subparagraph (A) shall identify to the Director or such designee the person to whom such
disclosure will be made or to whom such disclosure was made prior to the request.
(e) Judicial review
(1) In general
A request under subsection (a) or (b) or an order under subsection (c) or a non-disclosure
requirement imposed in connection with such request under subsection (d) shall be subject to
judicial review under section 3511 of title 18.
(2) Notice
A request under subsection (a) or (b) or an order under subsection (c) shall include notice
of the availability of judicial review described in paragraph (1).
(f) Payment of fees
The Federal Bureau of Investigation shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, pay to
the consumer reporting agency assembling or providing report or information in accordance with
procedures established under this section a fee for reimbursement for such costs as are
reasonably necessary and which have been directly incurred in searching, reproducing, or
transporting books, papers, records, or other data required or requested to be produced under
this section.
(g) Limit on dissemination
The Federal Bureau of Investigation may not disseminate information obtained pursuant to
this section outside of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, except to other Federal agencies as
may be necessary for the approval or conduct of a foreign counterintelligence investigation, or,
where the information concerns a person subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice, to
appropriate investigative authorities within the military department concerned as may be
necessary for the conduct of a joint foreign counterintelligence investigation.
(h) Rules of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit information from being furnished by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation pursuant to a subpoena or court order, in connection with a
judicial or administrative proceeding to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Nothing in this

section shall be construed to authorize or permit the withholding of information from the
Congress.
(i) Reports to Congress
(1) On a semiannual basis, the Attorney General shall fully inform the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the
House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate concerning all requests made pursuant to
subsections (a), (b), and (c).
(2) In the case of the semiannual reports required to be submitted under paragraph (1) to the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the submittal dates for such reports shall be as
provided in section 3106 of title 50.
(j) Damages
Any agency or department of the United States obtaining or disclosing any consumer reports,
records, or information contained therein in violation of this section is liable to the consumer to
whom such consumer reports, records, or information relate in an amount equal to the sum of—
(1) $100, without regard to the volume of consumer reports, records, or information
involved;
(2) any actual damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the disclosure;
(3) if the violation is found to have been willful or intentional, such punitive damages as a
court may allow; and
(4) in the case of any successful action to enforce liability under this subsection, the costs
of the action, together with reasonable attorney fees, as determined by the court.
(k) Disciplinary actions for violations
If a court determines that any agency or department of the United States has violated any
provision of this section and the court finds that the circumstances surrounding the violation
raise questions of whether or not an officer or employee of the agency or department acted
willfully or intentionally with respect to the violation, the agency or department shall promptly
initiate a proceeding to determine whether or not disciplinary action is warranted against the
officer or employee who was responsible for the violation.
(l) Good-faith exception
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any consumer reporting agency or
agent or employee thereof making disclosure of consumer reports or identifying information
pursuant to this subsection in good-faith reliance upon a certification of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation pursuant to provisions of this section shall not be liable to any person for such
disclosure under this subchapter, the constitution of any State, or any law or regulation of any
State or any political subdivision of any State.
(m) Limitation of remedies
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the remedies and sanctions set forth
in this section shall be the only judicial remedies and sanctions for violation of this section.
(n) Injunctive relief

In addition to any other remedy contained in this section, injunctive relief shall be available to
require compliance with the procedures of this section. In the event of any successful action
under this subsection, costs together with reasonable attorney fees, as determined by the court,
may be recovered.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §626, formerly §624, as added Pub. L. 104–93, title VI, §601(a), Jan. 6,
1996, 109 Stat. 974; renumbered §625 and amended Pub. L. 107–56, title III, §358(g)(1)(A), title
V, §505(c), Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 327, 366; Pub. L. 107–306, title VIII, §811(b)(8)(B), Nov. 27,
2002, 116 Stat. 2426; renumbered §626, Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §214(a)(1), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1980; Pub. L. 109–177, title I, §116(b), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 214; Pub. L. 109–178,
§4(c)(1), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 280; Pub. L. 114–23, title V, §§501(c), 502(c), 503(c), June 2,
2015, 129 Stat. 282, 285, 290.)
References in Text
This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (h), was in the original, "this Act" and was translated
as reading "this title", meaning title VI of Pub. L. 90–321, known as the Fair Credit Reporting
Act, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Prior Provisions
A prior section 626 of Pub. L. 90–321 was renumbered section 627 and is classified to section
1681v of this title.
Amendments
2015—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–23, §501(c)(1), substituted "that information that includes a
term that specifically identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for the production
of that information," for "that information,".
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 114–23, §501(c)(2), substituted "written request that includes a term that
specifically identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for the production of that
information," for "written request,".
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 114–23, §501(c)(3), inserted ", which shall include a term that specifically
identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for the production of the information,"
after "issue an order ex parte".
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 114–23, §502(c), added subsec. (d) and struck out former subsec. (d)
which related to confidentiality.
Subsecs. (e) to (n). Pub. L. 114–23, §503(c), added subsec. (e) and redesignated former
subsecs. (e) to (m) as (f) to (n), respectively.
2006—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–177 reenacted heading without change and amended text
generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "No consumer reporting agency or officer,
employee, or agent of a consumer reporting agency shall disclose to any person, other than
those officers, employees, or agents of a consumer reporting agency necessary to fulfill the
requirement to disclose information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under this section,
that the Federal Bureau of Investigation has sought or obtained the identity of financial
institutions or a consumer report respecting any consumer under subsection (a), (b), or (c) of

this section, and no consumer reporting agency or officer, employee, or agent of a consumer
reporting agency shall include in any consumer report any information that would indicate that
the Federal Bureau of Investigation has sought or obtained such information or a consumer
report."
Subsec. (d)(4). Pub. L. 109–178 amended par. (4) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (4)
read as follows: "At the request of the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the
designee of the Director, any person making or intending to make a disclosure under this
section shall identify to the Director or such designee the person to whom such disclosure will
be made or to whom such disclosure was made prior to the request, but in no circumstance
shall a person be required to inform the Director or such designee that the person intends to
consult an attorney to obtain legal advice or legal assistance."
2002—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 107–306 designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added
par. (2).
2001—Pub. L. 107–56, §505(c), which directed amendment of section 624 of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, was executed by making the amendment to this section to reflect the probable
intent of Congress and the renumbering of section 624 as 625 by section 358(g)(1)(A) of Pub. L.
107–56. See below.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 107–56, §505(c)(1), inserted "in a position not lower than Deputy
Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a Special Agent in Charge of a Bureau field office
designated by the Director" after "Investigation, or the Director's designee" and substituted "in
writing, that such information is sought for the conduct of an authorized investigation to protect
against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities, provided that such an
investigation of a United States person is not conducted solely upon the basis of activities
protected by the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States." for pars. (1) and (2)
requiring determination in writing that the information requested is necessary for the conduct of
an authorized foreign counterintelligence investigation and that there are specific and articulable
facts giving reason to believe that the consumer is a foreign power or a person who is not a
United States person and is an official of a foreign power, or that the consumer is an agent of a
foreign power and is engaging or has engaged in an act of international terrorism or clandestine
intelligence activities that involve or may involve a violation of criminal statutes of the United
States.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 107–56, §505(c)(2), inserted "in a position not lower than Deputy
Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a Special Agent in Charge of a Bureau field office
designated by the Director" after "signed by the Director or the Director's designee" and
substituted "in writing that such information is sought for the conduct of an authorized
investigation to protect against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities,
provided that such an investigation of a United States person is not conducted solely upon the
basis of activities protected by the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States." for
pars. (1) and (2) requiring determination in writing that the information requested is necessary to
the conduct of an authorized counterintelligence investigation and that there is information

giving reason to believe that the consumer has been, or is about to be, in contact with a foreign
power or an agent of a foreign power.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 107–56, §505(c)(3), inserted "in a position not lower than Deputy
Assistant Director at Bureau headquarters or a Special Agent in Charge in a Bureau field office
designated by the Director" after "designee of the Director" and substituted "in camera that the
consumer report is sought for the conduct of an authorized investigation to protect against
international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities, provided that such an investigation
of a United States person is not conducted solely upon the basis of activities protected by the
first amendment to the Constitution of the United States." for pars. (1) and (2) requiring a
showing in camera that the consumer report is necessary for the conduct of an authorized
foreign counterintelligence investigation and there are specific and articulable facts giving
reason to believe that the consumer whose consumer report is sought is an agent of a foreign
power and is engaging or has engaged in an act of international terrorism or in clandestine
intelligence activities that involve or may involve a violation of criminal statutes of the United
States.
Change of Name
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as
referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by
section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress.
Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and
replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over
matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from
Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5,
One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
Effective Date of 2001 Amendment
Amendment by section 358(g)(1)(A) of Pub. L. 107–56 applicable with respect to reports filed
or records maintained on, before, or after Oct. 26, 2001, see section 358(h) of Pub. L. 107–56,
set out as a note under section 1829b of this Title 12, Banks and Banking.

§1681v. Disclosures to governmental agencies for counterterrorism
purposes
(a) Disclosure
Notwithstanding section 1681b of this title or any other provision of this subchapter, a
consumer reporting agency shall furnish a consumer report of a consumer and all other
information in a consumer's file to a government agency authorized to conduct investigations of,
or intelligence or counterintelligence activities or analysis related to, international terrorism when
presented with a written certification by such government agency that such information is
necessary for the agency's conduct or such investigation, activity or analysis and that includes a
term that specifically identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for the production
of such information.

(b) Form of certification
The certification described in subsection (a) shall be signed by a supervisory official
designated by the head of a Federal agency or an officer of a Federal agency whose
appointment to office is required to be made by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate.
(c) Prohibition of certain disclosure
(1) Prohibition
(A) In general
If a certification is issued under subparagraph (B) and notice of the right to judicial review
under subsection (d) is provided, no consumer reporting agency that receives a request
under subsection (a), or officer, employee, or agent thereof, shall disclose or specify in any
consumer report, that a government agency described in subsection (a) has sought or
obtained access to information or records under subsection (a).
(B) Certification
The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall apply if the head of the government agency
described in subsection (a), or a designee, certifies that the absence of a prohibition of
disclosure under this subsection may result in—
(i) a danger to the national security of the United States;
(ii) interference with a criminal, counterterrorism, or counterintelligence investigation;
(iii) interference with diplomatic relations; or
(iv) danger to the life or physical safety of any person.
(2) Exception
(A) In general
A consumer reporting agency that receives a request under subsection (a), or officer,
employee, or agent thereof, may disclose information otherwise subject to any applicable
nondisclosure requirement to—
(i) those persons to whom disclosure is necessary in order to comply with the request;
(ii) an attorney in order to obtain legal advice or assistance regarding the request; or
(iii) other persons as permitted by the head of the government agency described in
subsection (a) or a designee.
(B) Application
A person to whom disclosure is made under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the
nondisclosure requirements applicable to a person to whom a request under subsection (a)
is issued in the same manner as the person to whom the request is issued.
(C) Notice
Any recipient that discloses to a person described in subparagraph (A) information
otherwise subject to a nondisclosure requirement shall inform the person of the applicable
nondisclosure requirement.
(D) Identification of disclosure recipients

At the request of the head of the government agency described in subsection (a) or a
designee, any person making or intending to make a disclosure under clause (i) or (iii) of
subparagraph (A) shall identify to the head or such designee the person to whom such
disclosure will be made or to whom such disclosure was made prior to the request.
(d) Judicial review
(1) In general
A request under subsection (a) or a non-disclosure requirement imposed in connection with
such request under subsection (c) shall be subject to judicial review under section 3511 of title
18.
(2) Notice
A request under subsection (a) shall include notice of the availability of judicial review
described in paragraph (1).
(e) Rule of construction
Nothing in section 1681u of this title shall be construed to limit the authority of the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation under this section.
(f) Safe harbor
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any consumer reporting agency or
agent or employee thereof making disclosure of consumer reports or other information pursuant
to this section in good-faith reliance upon a certification of a government agency pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall not be liable to any person for such disclosure under this
subchapter, the constitution of any State, or any law or regulation of any State or any political
subdivision of any State.
(g) Reports to Congress
(1) On a semi-annual basis, the Attorney General shall fully inform the Committee on the
Judiciary, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate concerning all requests made pursuant to subsection (a).
(2) In the case of the semiannual reports required to be submitted under paragraph (1) to the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the submittal dates for such reports shall be as
provided in section 3106 of title 50.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §627, formerly §626, as added Pub. L. 107–56, title III, §358(g)(1)(B),
Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 327; renumbered §627 and amended Pub. L. 108–159, title II,
§214(a)(1), (c)(3), Dec. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 1980, 1983; Pub. L. 108–458, title VI, §6203(l), Dec.
17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3747; Pub. L. 109–177, title I, §§116(c), 118(b), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 214,
217; Pub. L. 109–178, §4(c)(2), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 280; Pub. L. 114–23, title V, §§501(d),
502(d), 503(d), June 2, 2015, 129 Stat. 282, 286, 290.)
Amendments

2015—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–23, §501(d), substituted "analysis and that includes a term
that specifically identifies a consumer or account to be used as the basis for the production of
such information." for "analysis."
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 114–23, §502(d), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c)
which related to confidentiality.
Subsecs. (d) to (g). Pub. L. 114–23, §503(d), added subsec. (d) and redesignated former
subsecs. (d) to (f) as (e) to (g), respectively.
2006—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–177, §116(c), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to
amendment, text read as follows: "No consumer reporting agency, or officer, employee, or agent
of such consumer reporting agency, shall disclose to any person, or specify in any consumer
report, that a government agency has sought or obtained access to information under
subsection (a) of this section."
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 109–178 amended par. (4) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (4)
read as follows: "At the request of the authorized Government agency, any person making or
intending to make a disclosure under this section shall identify to the requesting official of the
authorized Government agency the person to whom such disclosure will be made or to whom
such disclosure was made prior to the request, but in no circumstance shall a person be
required to inform such requesting official that the person intends to consult an attorney to
obtain legal advice or legal assistance."
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 109–177, §118(b), added subsec. (f).
2004—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–458 substituted "government agency" for "governmental
agency".
2003—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–159, §214(c)(3), made technical amendment to reference in
original act which appears in text as reference to section 1681u of this title.
Effective Date of 2004 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–458 effective as if included in Pub. L. 107–56, as of the date of
enactment of such Act, see section 6205 of Pub. L. 108–458, set out as a note under section
1828 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.
Effective Date of 2003 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 108–159 subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as
prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise
provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159, set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.
Effective Date
Section applicable with respect to reports filed or records maintained on, before, or after Oct.
26, 2001, see section 358(h) of Pub. L. 107–56, set out as an Effective Date of 2001
Amendment note under section 1829b of this Title 12, Banks and Banking.

§1681w. Disposal of records
(a) Regulations
(1) In general
The Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the Federal banking agencies, and the National Credit Union
Administration, with respect to the entities that are subject to their respective enforcement
authority under section 1681s of this title, and in coordination as described in paragraph (2),
shall issue final regulations requiring any person that maintains or otherwise possesses
consumer information, or any compilation of consumer information, derived from consumer
reports for a business purpose to properly dispose of any such information or compilation.
(2) Coordination
Each agency required to prescribe regulations under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) consult and coordinate with each other such agency so that, to the extent possible,
the regulations prescribed by each such agency are consistent and comparable with the
regulations by each such other agency; and
(B) ensure that such regulations are consistent with the requirements and regulations
issued pursuant to Public Law 106–102 and other provisions of Federal law.
(3) Exemption authority
In issuing regulations under this section, the agencies identified in paragraph (1) may
exempt any person or class of persons from application of those regulations, as such agency
deems appropriate to carry out the purpose of this section.
(b) Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed—
(1) to require a person to maintain or destroy any record pertaining to a consumer that is
not imposed under other law; or
(2) to alter or affect any requirement imposed under any other provision of law to maintain
or destroy such a record.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §628, as added Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §216(a), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1985; amended Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1088(a)(12), (13), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2091,
2092.)
References in Text
Public Law 106–102, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(B), is Pub. L. 106–102, Nov. 12, 1999, 113
Stat. 1338, as amended, known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. For complete classification of
this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1999 Amendment note set out under section 1811 of Title
12, Banks and Banking, and Tables.
Amendments
2010—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(12), substituted "The Federal Trade
Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the Federal banking agencies, and the National Credit Union Administration, with

respect to the entities that are subject to their respective enforcement authority under section
1681s of this title," for "Not later than 1 year after December 4, 2003, the Federal banking
agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Commission with respect to the
entities that are subject to their respective enforcement authority under section 1681s of this
title, and the Securities and Exchange Commission,".
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 111–203, §1088(a)(13), substituted "the agencies identified in
paragraph (1)" for "the Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, the
Commission, and the Securities and Exchange Commission".
Effective Date of 2010 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H
of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization
and Employees.
Effective Date
Section subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal
Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see section 3 of
Pub. L. 108–159, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 1681 of
this title.

§1681x. Corporate and technological circumvention prohibited
The Commission shall prescribe regulations, to become effective not later than 90 days after
December 4, 2003, to prevent a consumer reporting agency from circumventing or evading
treatment as a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of this title for
purposes of this subchapter, including—
(1) by means of a corporate reorganization or restructuring, including a merger, acquisition,
dissolution, divestiture, or asset sale of a consumer reporting agency; or
(2) by maintaining or merging public record and credit account information in a manner that
is substantially equivalent to that described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1681a(p) of
this title, in the manner described in section 1681a(p) of this title.
(Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, §629, as added Pub. L. 108–159, title II, §211(b), Dec. 4, 2003, 117
Stat. 1970.)
Effective Date
Section subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal
Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see section 3 of
Pub. L. 108–159, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 1681 of
this title.

