Regulations
Consumer Protection Regulations
Version 1.4

Issued: 20 March 2019

Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA)
P O Box 26662, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE)
www.tra.gov.ae

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

CONSUMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
CONTENTS
1.

Introduction...................................................................................................... 4

2.

Definitions and interpretation......................................................................... 4

3.

General Provisions .......................................................................................... 9

4.

Provision of Information to Consumers ...................................................... 10

5.

Provision of Subscriber Contracts .............................................................. 13

6.

Contract Exit Charges ................................................................................... 16

7.

Penalty-Free Service Cancellation Period ................................................... 17

8.

Activating / Deactivating Telecommunication Services ............................. 20

9.

Price Transparency, and Service Consumption Monitoring ...................... 21

10.

Hard-Caps on Mobile Data ............................................................................ 22

11.

Notification of Price Increases and Notification of Roaming Costs .......... 24

12.

Subscriber Invoices and Receipts ............................................................... 25

13.

Transparency in Fixed-Line Broadband Speeds ........................................ 26

14.

Activation and Deactivation of Additional Services ................................... 27

15.

Fair Use Policies ............................................................................................ 29

16.

Disconnection Due to Non-Payments of Invoices ...................................... 30

17.

Repair of Faults and Restoration of Service ............................................... 31

18.

Privacy of Subscriber Information ............................................................... 31

19.

On-line Directory Information and Directory Enquiries ............................. 33

20.

Consumer Complaints and Consumer Disputes ........................................ 35

21.

Audit of Billing Systems ............................................................................... 37

22.

Advertising ..................................................................................................... 37

23.

Publication of Regulations ........................................................................... 43

24.

Final Provisions and Effective date ............................................................. 43

Page 2

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

Annexure
Annexe 1:

The TRA’s Consumer Dispute Procedures

Annexe 2:

Procedure for the submission of a complaint related to the Advertising
practices of a Licensee

Page 3

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

1.

Introduction

1.1.

Article (14)3 of Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003 Regarding the Organization
of the Telecommunications Sector, as amended (hereinafter “the
Telecommunications Law”) grants the TRA the power to issue regulations,
instructions, decisions and rules regulating the conditions, level and scope of
services provided by the Licensees to subscribers…including the standards and
quality of the provided services, terms of supply, the handling of subscriber
complaints and disputes, provision of information to subscribers, usage of
subscriber personal information and the provision of bills to subscribers.

1.2.

These Regulations are issued pursuant to the provisions
Telecommunications Law and the powers vested in the TRA.

1.3.

These Regulations apply to all Licensees in the UAE. Licensees are required to
obligate their agents, Partners, and representatives to adhere to these
Regulations.

1.4.

These Regulations are in addition to and complement other applicable UAE laws
and the TRA’s Regulatory Framework. Nothing in these Regulations shall be
construed as waiving or modifying obligations to comply with any other applicable
laws in the UAE.

2.

Definitions and interpretation

2.1.

The terms, words, and phrases used in these Regulations shall have the same
meaning as are ascribed to them in the Telecommunications Law unless these
Regulations expressly provides for otherwise, or the context in which those
terms, words and phrases are used in these Regulations requires otherwise. For
the purposes of these Regulations, the following terms and words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them below:

of

the

2.1.1.

“Additional Service” means – any optional non-telecommunications
service supplied by a Partner or a Licensee including but not limited
to: games, content, apps, ringtones, third-party products, third-party
services, etc. and where the fees, levies, or charges for such extra
service(s) are collected by the concerned Licensee via the
Subscriber’s account;

2.1.2.

“Advertisement” means - any direct or indirect advertising,
marketing, promotional or branding activity or any other activity which
has the same or similar effect, and which is made to promote a
product, service, or Person to Consumers, and “Advertising” and
“Advertises” shall be construed accordingly;

Page 4

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

2.1.3.

“Advertiser” means - any Person, as defined in sub-article 22.1 and,
to the extent applicable, sub-article 22.26 of these Regulations, that
Advertises;

2.1.4.

“Advertising Means and Materials” means - any material used for
Advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
brochures, leaflets, circulars, mailings, e-mails, text transmissions, fax
transmissions, catalogues, follow-up literature, websites, social media
platforms, and other electronic and printed material; posters and other
promotional media in public places, including moving images; cinema
and video commercials; advertisements in electronic media, including
broadcast media; online advertisements in paid-for space, for
example, banner and pop-up advertisements; and public statements
by Licensees and their agents and representatives, including but not
limited to, statements, whether or not made or placed for
consideration, made in news articles, press releases, and electronic
media, including the internet and broadcast media, and at public
forums;

2.1.5.

“Advertising Partner” means - any Person who can reasonably be
construed as being a distributor, dealer, agent, subcontractor, or
representative of an Advertiser;

2.1.6.

“Comparative Advertising” means - Advertising which in any way,
either explicitly or by implication, identifies a competitor or a product
or service offered by a competitor;

2.1.7.

“Consumer” means - any person, whether a natural person or a legal
entity but excluding a Licensee, which person consumes or may
consume a Public Telecommunications Service provided by a
Licensee;

2.1.8.

“Consumer Complaint” means - any correspondence or
communication registered by any reasonable means at any place
authorised by the Licensee for such purposes, from a Subscriber
expressing dissatisfaction or grievance with that Licensee’s handling
of the Subscriber’s account, or that Licensee’s provision of a Public
Telecommunications Service to that Subscriber or from a Consumer
expressing dissatisfaction or grievance on a matter within the direct
scope of a Licensee’s business and on which matter the Consumer
has some legitimate interest;

2.1.9.

“Consumer Dispute” means - any correspondence or communication
accepted by the TRA from a Consumer expressing dissatisfaction or
grievance on the outcome of a Consumer Complaint or on matters

Page 5

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

within the direct scope of a Licensee’s business and on which matter
the Consumer has some legitimate interest;
2.1.10.

“Hard Cap” means - a strict limit or ceiling imposed by Licensees on
mobile data allowances 1 beyond which, the consumer cannot
consume additional mobile data without the consumer taking specific
actions as set out further in these Regulations.

2.1.11.

“In-bundle Rate” means - the effective rate in AED/MB applied by the
Licensees for the consumption of mobile data in circumstances where
the consumer has subscribed to a data bundle and is consuming data
within the data allowance for the particular bundle.

2.1.12.

“No Bundle Rate” means - the retail rate in AED/MB charged by
Licensees for the consumption of mobile data in circumstances where
the consumer has not subscribed to a corresponding data bundle.

2.1.13.

“One-time Password” or “OTP” means – a string of characters, that
is communicated to a user by electronic means, and has a limited life,
and can be used to authenticate the user for a single transaction only.

2.1.14.

“Out-of-bundle Period” means - the period of time, whether
measured in hours, days, weeks, or months, starting from the time
when a consumer has used all of the data in a given data allowance
and ending at the time when the data bundle automatically renews.
For example: if a daily data bundle automatically renews at midnight
each day and a consumer has used all of the data in that bundle by
14:45 hours, the Out-of-bundle Period would be of 9 hours and 15
minutes duration.

2.1.15.

“Out-of-bundle Rate” means - the retail rate in AED/MB charged by
the Licensees during the Out-of-Bundle Period for the consumption of
mobile data outside the data allowance in any given data bundle.

2.1.16.

“Partner” means - any Person who has an arrangement with a
Licensee whereby the fees for Additional Services (products, services,
applications, games, ringtones and anything else) supplied by that
Person are collected by the Licensee via a Subscriber’s account
whether collected immediately by a deduction of credit or collected at
some later stage by a post-paid invoice.

1

All mobile data allowances included in any bundle, whether a single service bundle comprising a mobile
data allowance only, or a multiple-service bundle comprising a mobile data allowance along with other
allowances such as a certain number of voice minutes and/or an allowance for SMS communications and
where in the case of multi-service bundles, the Hard Cap applies to the allowance for mobile data only.

Page 6

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

2.1.17.

“PAYG Data” (or “pay as you go data”, or “pay-as-you-go data”)
means - any Licensee provided service or system whereby the
consumption of data is charged at the time of using that data and
where the amount charged by the Licensee is proportionate to the
amount of data used by that consumer. Note: in the context of these
Regulations, the terms PAYG (or pay as you go, or pay-as-you-go)
shall have the same meanings in pre-paid billing systems (where the
retail charges are deducted as they arise from a pre-purchased credit
balance) and in post-paid billing systems (where the retail charges are
collected at some time after they arise and in accordance with the
established billing cycle for the consumer in question).

2.1.18.

“PAYG Hard Cap” means - a strict limit or ceiling imposed by
Licensees on the charges to be incurred by Subscribers through the
consumption of PAYG Data in any one day as further described in
Article 10 of these Regulations.

2.1.19.

“PAYG Hard Cap Limit” means - the monetary value of the PAYG
Hard Cap.

2.1.20.

“Penalty-Free Service Cancellation Period” means - the period of
time, as further defined in Article 7 of these Regulations, during which
period a Subscriber can, in certain circumstances, cancel a contract
for the supply of Telecommunications Services and exit that contract
without incurring an early exit fee that would otherwise be imposed;

2.1.21.

“Person” means - any natural or juridical person;

2.1.22.

“Post Subscription Confirmation Message” or “PSCM” means - a
written notice, as further defined in sub-article 4.2, which is provided
to the Subscriber under certain circumstances in accordance with
these Regulations;

2.1.23.

“Premium Charge Number” means - a fixed or mobile telephone
number or short code for voice or text messaging for which the
Consumer or Subscriber is charged at a higher than standard charge
for a local voice call or a standard SMS;

2.1.24.

“Price” shall have the same meaning as given to that term in the
Regulatory Policy and Procedure, Price Control, Version 1.0, issued
28 June 2017;

2.1.25.

“Regulations or “these Regulations” means - the Consumer
Protection Regulations including any annexure thereto, as issued by
the TRA and amended from time to time;

Page 7

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

2.2.

2.1.26.

“Regulatory Framework” means - the complete body of resolutions,
licences, authorisations, policies, regulations, instructions, directives,
orders, determinations, reports, procedures, guidelines, and other
such regulatory instruments as issued and as may be issued by the
TRA and as may be amended from time-to-time.

2.1.27.

“Subscriber” means – a Person, but excluding a Licensee, which has
a contract with a Licensee for the supply of Telecommunications
Services by the Licensee to that Person;

2.1.28.

“Subscriber Information” means - any personal data relating to a
specific Subscriber and includes, but is not limited to, that Person’s:
name, address, bank account details, credit card details, service
usage details, call records, message records, any information derived
from a Subscriber’s use of telecommunications services, account
status, payment history, and credit rating;

2.1.29.

“Telecommunications Law” means - Federal Law by Decree No. 3
of 2003 Regarding the Organisation of the Telecommunications
Sector, as amended;

2.1.30.

“Temporary Instructions” means - the instructions that the TRA may
issue pursuant to sub-article 3.7 of these Regulations; and

2.1.31.

“TRA” means - the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority, which
pursuant to the provisions of Article 6 of the Telecommunications Law
is the General Authority for Regulating the Telecommunications
Sector”;

In interpreting the provisions of these Regulations, unless these Regulations
expressly provide for otherwise, or the context requires otherwise:
2.2.1.

words importing one gender shall be construed as importing all
genders;

2.2.2.

words importing the singular shall be construed as importing the plural
and vice-versa;

2.2.3.

words importing persons shall be construed as importing juridical
entities;

2.2.4.

the word ‘contract’ shall not be construed as to apply only to written
contracts for post-paid services, where appropriate the word contract
shall also be construed to apply to pre-paid services;

Page 8

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

2.2.5.

references to ‘subscription to’ and ‘purchase of’ shall be construed to
have the same meaning and references to ‘subscription process’ and
‘purchase process’ shall be construed to have the same meaning;

2.2.6.

references to ‘services provided to Consumers’ and references to
‘products provided to Consumers’ shall be construed to mean
‘services and/or products offered and/or provided to Consumers

2.2.7.

references to articles, sub-articles, annexure, and attachments shall
be construed as being references to articles, sub-articles, annexure,
and attachments in or to these Regulations;

2.2.8.

headings and sub-headings in these Regulations are intended for
guidance and are not to be construed as limiting the effect of the
provisions these Regulations.

3.

General Provisions

3.1.

Licensees shall act transparently in all dealings with Consumers regarding the
service offered and/or provided by Licensees to Consumers.

3.2.

Licensees shall take all reasonable steps to post charges to a Subscriber’s
account in a timely manner.

3.3.

Licensees are encouraged to promote awareness and generally assist their
Subscribers to get the best from the telecommunications services and products
being provided.

3.4.

Notwithstanding the generality of 3.3, the TRA may, from time to time, require
Licensees to promote awareness in Subscribers on certain matters as specified
and justified by the TRA at that time.

3.5.

Except when specifically approved by the TRA or objectively justified otherwise,
Licensees shall implement technology neutral and geographically neutral Prices
so that for any given Service, Consumers shall not be unduly disadvantaged by
their geographical location. This means that any given Licensee supplied service
will have a uniform Price throughout the UAE, and in the event that the same
service can be supplied using various technologies the Price will remain uniform
regardless of the technology used to deliver that service.

3.6.

A finding of a breach of the provisions of these Regulations does not preclude
the TRA from finding that the same act(s) or omission(s) also constitute a breach
of another provision of the Telecommunications Law, of a Licence condition or
other regulatory instrument issued by the TRA nor from taking enforcement
action pursuant to that provision also.

Page 9

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

3.7.

The TRA, where it considers it reasonable, may during the investigation of a
complaint for an alleged breach of Article 22 of these Regulations, issue
Temporary Instructions to any Licensee concerning the activities under
investigation. Such Temporary Instructions may include the obligation to desist
temporarily in repeating the particular Advertisement, or to take, or refrain from
taking, any steps that the TRA considers appropriate under the circumstances.
In deciding whether to issue Temporary Instructions, the TRA shall have regard
to the complexity of the case, the likely impact on Consumers, the
telecommunications market and the strength of the available evidence.
Consumer protection shall be given paramount consideration in such cases.
Temporary Instructions shall apply for such period as the TRA may specify.
Breach of the Temporary Instructions shall constitute a breach of these
Regulations.

3.8.

The TRA, where it considers it reasonable and appropriate may issue Guidelines
concerning specific aspects of the application of individual articles or sub-articles
of these Regulations.

4.

Provision of Information to Consumers

4.1.

Where these Regulations obligate Licensees to provide written information to
Consumers, unless a contrary intention is expressed for specific provisions, such
written information shall comply with the following:

4.2.

4.1.1.

the information shall be written in the Arabic language or in the English
Language as preferred by the Consumer or in circumstances where
the preference is unknown, the information shall be written in both
languages.

4.1.2.

the information shall be provided in both hard and electronic form.

Where these Regulations obligate Licensees or their Partners to provide Post
Subscription Confirmation Messages (PSCM) to Subscribers, unless a contrary
intention is expressed for specific provisions, such PSCM shall comply with the
following:
4.2.1.

For Telecommunications Services and/or Additional Services
supplied by a Licensee, the PSCM shall:
(a) be provided by the Licensee;
(b) be in writing and in accordance with the provisions of sub-article
4.1.1;
(c) be sent by SMS and any other form of electronic communication,
as may be specified by the Subscriber;
Page 10

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

(d) be sent right after subscription to, or purchase of, the Licensee
supplied service; and
(e) shall include the following related details: the date and time of the
subscription/purchase; the name of the product/service; the
subscription price including the frequency of any recurring
charges if applicable; and a link to, a facility that may be used by
the Subscriber to cancel the subscription/purchase.
4.2.2.

Subject to the provisions of 4.2.3, for Additional Services supplied by
a Partner, the PSCM shall:
(a) be provided by the Partner;
(b) be in writing and in accordance with the provisions of sub-article
4.1.1;
(c) be sent by SMS and any other form of electronic communication,
as may be specified by the Subscriber;
(d) be sent right after subscription to, or purchase of, the Partner
supplied service; and
(e) to the extent possible, include the following related details: the
date and time of the subscription/purchase; the name of the
product/service; the subscription price including the frequency of
any recurring charges if applicable; and a link to, a facility that may
be used by the Subscriber to cancel the subscription/purchase.

4.2.3.

In circumstances where Additional Services are supplied by a Partner
and where the concerned Licensee cannot obligate that Partner to
comply with the provisions of 4.2.2, the PSCM shall:
(a) be provided by the Licensee;
(b) be in writing and in accordance with the provisions of sub-article
4.1.1;
(c) be sent by SMS and any other form of electronic communication,
as may be specified by the Subscriber;
(d) be sent right after the Licensee is made aware of the Subscriber’s
subscription to, or purchase of, the Additional Service; and
(e) to the extent possible, include the following related details: the
date and time of the subscription/purchase; the name of the
product/service; the subscription price; and a link to a facility that

Page 11

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

may be used by
subscription/purchase.

the

Subscriber

to

cancel

the

Pre-Contract Information
4.3. Licensees shall, during the pre-contract stage and prior to providing any service,
take all reasonable steps to provide the Consumer with written information to
advise the Consumer of the following, as applicable to the service in question:
4.3.1.

details of any deposits or pre-payments to be paid to the Licensee,
and an explanation of how such deposits or pre-payments may be
returned to the Subscriber;

4.3.2.

details of all prices and price elements, including rental charges, that
apply to the provision of the service and the frequency at which the
Subscriber is expected to make payments;

4.3.3.

details of how voice units (bundled and non-bundled units) are
metered;

4.3.4.

details of how data sessions are metered and deducted from data
bundles;

4.3.5.

details of any discounts and special terms that may apply to the
provision of the service and the period or periods during which any
such discounts apply, and if applicable the terms that will apply on
expiry of such discounts and special terms;

4.3.6.

details of any limitations or restrictions on the use of the service
including, but not limited to, any limits on the volume of usage, any
restrictions on the speed of data transfer, any restrictions on the use
of “over the top” services or applications, any fair use policies, and
details of any fees that would become payable if any such limits are
exceeded;

4.3.7.

details of any exit charges;

4.3.8.

any charges which may be applicable in case a prepaid account falls
below a specified minimum balance level and is not recharged with
sufficient funds;

4.3.9.

any refund of unused credit (remaining balance) or advance payments
(i.e. security deposits) or other arrangements for which the Consumer
is eligible in the event of non-renewal of prepaid account, cancellation
of service, disconnection of service, subscription transfer or
Licensee’s discontinuation of a service etc.;

Page 12

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

4.3.10.

any compensation, refund or other arrangements which may apply if
the Licensees’ commitments (e.g., quality of service) are not met;

4.3.11.

any other applicable conditions or restrictions;

4.3.12.

information as to whether after sales support is available, the
circumstances in which it is available and the contact details for aftersales support and whether a charge is payable for after sales support;
and

4.3.13.

the rights of the Consumer which may arise under Article 11 in the
event of a price increase, and if applicable the rights of the Consumer
which may arise under Article 7.

Post-Contract Information
4.4. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 5, Licensees shall assist Subscribers to
understand the key points of the product or service sold to the Subscriber. To
that end, Licensees shall provide the Subscriber with a transparent, written
summary of the principal terms and conditions specific to the product or service
in question. The summary shall provide the following information, where
applicable:
4.4.1.

the term (duration) of the contract;

4.4.2.

the fees payable and the frequency of the payment;

4.4.3.

details of any discounts applied and the period for which such
discounts apply;

4.4.4.

limitations of any bundled allowances, and out-of-bundle rates;

4.4.5.

any restrictions specifically applied by the Licensee including but not
limited to volume restrictions, and speed restrictions applied to data
download and upload speeds;

4.4.6.

any imposed fair use policy; and

4.4.7.

early termination fees.

5.

Provision of Subscriber Contracts

5.1.

Licensees shall provide new Subscribers with a written contract, and the contract
shall clearly and unambiguously express the full terms and conditions including
any restrictions, limitations, fair use policies etc, relating to the supply of the
related service. The provisions of this sub-article 5.1 do not exclude the
possibility of the Licensee incorporating published documents such as terms and

Page 13

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

conditions, fair use policies, scale of tariffs etc. into the Subscriber contract by
reference, provided that any such incorporated document is published in a
manner which makes the document readily available to the Subscriber at all
reasonable times during the term of the Subscriber contract.
5.2.

Subscriber contracts shall contain an introduction which clearly summarises the
key terms and conditions as described in sub-article 4.4.

5.3.

At a minimum, the contract shall include2 terms that clearly state the following:
5.3.1.

the commencement date of the contract;

5.3.2.

the minimum term (duration) of the contract, if applicable;

5.3.3.

the terms and conditions relating to the delivery and/or activation of
the service;

5.3.4.

the Subscriber’s obligations under the contract and the consequences
arising from a breach of those obligations by the Subscriber;

5.3.5.

the terms and conditions concerning early termination by the
Subscriber, including the amount of (or the method of calculating) any
charges that would become payable by the Subscriber for early
termination;

5.3.6.

the terms and conditions concerning any limitations or restrictions on
the use of the service including in particular any limits on the volume
of usage, any restrictions on the use of “over the top services or
applications”, any fair use policies, and details of any fees that would
become payable if any such limits are exceeded;

5.3.7.

the conduct or events that may give rise to a right to terminate the
contract before expiration of the fixed-term or expiration of the
minimum term if applicable, and which party has those early
termination rights;

5.3.8.

any requirement, including the form and timing, for the Subscriber to
give notice to the Licensee if the Subscriber elects to terminate the
contract;

5.3.9.

the terms and conditions for disconnection of the service by the
Licensee;

In this context “inclusion” does not exclude the possibility of inclusion by reference to some other
document provided always that such referenced document is published and is freely available before
contract signature and at all reasonable times during the term of the contract.
2

Page 14

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

5.3.10.

the terms and conditions relating to reconnection of a disconnected
service including any associated fees that would become payable;

5.3.11.

the terms and conditions associated with the renewal of the contract,
if applicable;

5.3.12.

the relevant billing timeframes and cycles and payment methods;

5.3.13.

the terms and conditions relating to situations such as planned and
unplanned outages;

5.3.14.

the manner in which amendments to the terms and conditions of the
contract may be made by the Licensee and the manner of notifying
the Subscriber of such actions and the Subscribers rights in such
circumstances;

5.3.15.

the method or methods by which a Subscriber can obtain or access a
copy of any amended or varied terms and conditions; and

5.3.16.

the contact details for the Licensee’s customer service centre.

5.4.

Licensees shall maintain a record of the Subscriber’s consent to the contract
terms and in the event of a dispute regarding the existence of consent, it shall be
for Licensees to demonstrate with evidence that consent was properly obtained.
In the absence of such evidence, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that
the Subscriber did not provide such consent.

5.5.

A copy of the contract shall be provided to the Subscriber at the point of sale and
at any other time, a copy of the contract shall always be provided to the
Subscriber on the Subscriber’s request.

5.6.

The TRA may, acting reasonably, require a Licensee to amend its Subscriber
contracts to the extent that:

5.7.

5.6.1.

such contracts do not comply with the Regulatory Framework;

5.6.2.

the amendments required by the TRA are for the sole purpose of
securing compliance with the Regulatory Framework; and

5.6.3.

to the extent that any amendments do not, in the reasonable opinion
of the Licensee, render all or part of the contracts unenforceable within
the context of the jurisdictional laws governing the contracts.

The TRA will objectively justify any such requirements referenced in sub-article
5.6 and its further sub-articles on a case-by-case basis if and when the need
arises.

Page 15

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

6.

Contract Exit Charges

6.1.

In circumstances where a Licensee’s contract for Telecommunications Services
is for a fixed term, or includes provisions which specify a minimum term, and
obligate the Subscriber to pay an exit charge if the Subscriber exits the contract
during that fixed term or minimum term as the case may be, the exit charge shall
not exceed the relevant amount calculated as follows:
6.1.1.

for residential consumers3, an amount of AED 1,000 or an amount
equal to 1 x MRC4, whichever amount is the lower; or

6.1.2.

for business consumers5, 1 x MRC per line.

6.2.

The limits contained in 6.1 above, shall be applied regardless of the point during
the fixed term or the minimum term as the case may be, at which the Subscriber
exits the contract.

6.3.

In circumstances where a Licensee bundles a device, or devices, with a
telecommunications service, and supplies that bundle pursuant to a contract of
the type described in in 6.1, the contract exit charge shall not exceed an amount
determined in accordance with the following formula:
Bf + ( Rp / Ct ) x ( Ct – ( 1 + T ) )
Where:

6.4.

Bf = the basic exit charge (calculated in accordance with
6.1.1 or 6.1.2 as appropriate);
Rp = the retail price of the device(s);
Ct = the number of months in the minimum term of the
contract; and
T = the number of months the subscriber has served in
the contract.

The provisions of 6.1 to 6.3 shall not apply to the following types of contracts:
6.4.1.

contracts for ‘company owned company paid’ (COCP) connections
where the number of COCP connections supplied in the contract
exceeds 100;

In this context, the term ‘residential consumer’ means a natural person, and this includes natural
persons who subscribe as individuals to certain business packages and where the natural person, as
opposed to a legal entity, is responsible for paying the monthly invoice.
4 In this context, the term ‘MRC’ means the basic monthly recurring charge and excludes any and all
charges applied for add-ons, or optional packs (even if those charges are fixed and recur monthly), and
any variable charges for service consumption including out-of-bundle charges.
5 In this context, the term ‘business consumer’ means a juridical person named in the contract with a
Licensee.
3

Page 16

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

6.4.2.

contracts for enterprise products aimed at large enterprise customers
(i.e. juridical persons employing more than 1,500 employees in the
UAE); or

6.4.3.

other types of contracts as may be specified by the TRA from time to
time.

7.

Penalty-Free Service Cancellation Period

7.1.

The provisions of sub-articles 7.3 to 7.5 inclusive, shall enter into force on the
date which is three (3) months after the date on which these Regulations are
issued.

7.2.

The provisions of sub-articles 7.6 to 7.9 inclusive, shall enter into force on a date
to be determined and announced by the TRA. Where such announcement shall
be made in writing on a day which is at least three months prior to the date on
which those sub-articles shall enter into force.

7.3.

In the context of this Article, the term ‘Service-only Qualifying Contract’ shall
mean a contract between a Licensee and a Subscriber where all of the following
conditions are fulfilled:
7.3.1.

the contract is entered into on or after the date specified in 7.1; and

7.3.2.

the contract includes at least one telecommunications service; and

7.3.3.

the contract is for a fixed term, or the contract specifies a minimum
term6; and

7.3.4.

the termination of the contract by the Subscriber during the fixed term,
or during the minimum term as the case may be, gives rise to an
obligation in the contract for the Subscriber to pay an exit charge.

7.4.

Service-only Qualifying Contracts shall be subject to a Penalty-Free Service
Cancellation Period, where the duration of such period shall not be less than
three (3) days7.

7.5.

A Subscriber may exit a Service-only Qualifying Contract without penalty in
circumstances where all of the following conditions are fulfilled:
7.5.1.

the telecommunications service was miss-sold by the Licensee; or the
concerned telecommunications service provided by the Licensee
does not comply with the terms and conditions for that

Sometimes referred to as a ‘minimum commitment period’
The period of three days (3 days) applies in all cases and is regardless of the duration of the term or
minimum term of the related contract.
6
7

Page 17

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

telecommunications service as set out in the contract with the
Subscriber; and

7.6.

7.5.2.

the non-compliance referred to in sub-article 7.5.1 is reported to the
concerned Licensee during the Penalty-Free Service Cancellation
Period; and

7.5.3.

the concerned Licensee has not been able to rectify the noncompliance within a further period of time equal to the duration of the
Penalty-Free Service Cancellation Period or the concerned Licensee
has not been able to provide an alternative service at terms
acceptable to the Subscriber.

In the context of this Article, the term ‘Qualifying Contract’ shall mean a contract
between a Licensee and a Subscriber where all of the following conditions are
fulfilled:
7.6.1.

the contract is entered into on or after the effective date referred to in
sub-article 7.2, and

7.6.2.

the contract includes at least one telecommunications service; and

7.6.3.

subject to the provisions of sub-article 7.7, a qualifying device is
bundled with the telecommunications service(s); and

7.6.4.

the contract is for a fixed term, or the contract specifies a minimum
term; and

7.6.5.

the termination of the contract by the Subscriber during the fixed term,
or during the minimum term as the case may be, gives rise to an
obligation in the contract for the Subscriber to:
(a) pay an exit charge; or
(b) pay a fee8 related to the physical device; or
(c) pay both (a) and (b) above.

7.7.

In the context of this Article, the term ‘qualifying device’ shall mean:
7.7.1.

for fixed-line services, any of the following Licensee-supplied devices:
(a) set-top boxes used for the reception of audio/visual content;

8

Including any up-front fees paid for the bespoke physical device

Page 18

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

(b) WIFI equipment including routers, access points, and range
extenders etc.;
(c) fixed-line telephone handsets including cordless handsets;
(d) bespoke devices which are necessary to access or receive the
specific telecommunications services(s) supplied by the
Licensees; or
(e) any other device or category of device as may be specified by the
TRA from time to time.
7.7.2.

For mobile services, any of the following Licensee-supplied devices:
(a) any terminal device which is limited, or otherwise restricted, to a
specific network or a specific service, etc.; or
(b) any other device or category of device as may be specified by the
TRA from time to time.

7.8.

Qualifying Contracts shall be subject to a Penalty-Free Service Cancellation
Period, where the duration of such period shall not be less than one week for
each year of the fixed term, or the minimum term as the case may be of the
contract.

7.9.

A Subscriber may exit a Qualifying Contract without penalty9 in circumstances
where all of the following conditions are fulfilled:
7.9.1.

the telecommunications service was miss-sold by the Licensee; or the
concerned telecommunications service provided by the Licensee
does not comply with the terms and conditions for that service as set
out in the contract with the Subscriber; and

7.9.2.

the non-compliance referred to in sub-article 7.9.1 has been reported
to the concerned Licensee during the Penalty-Free Service
Cancellation Period; and

7.9.3.

the concerned Licensee has not been able to rectify the noncompliance within a further period of time equal to the duration of the
Penalty-Free Service Cancellation Period, or the concerned Licensee
has not been able to provide an alternative service at terms
acceptable to the Subscriber; and

In this context the term ‘without penalty’ means that all exit charges and/or equipment charges shall be
waived by the Licensee, and any upfront payments made by the Subscriber to the Licensee shall be
returned to that Subscriber.
9

Page 19

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

7.9.4.

the qualifying device is returned to the Licensee with all accessories
and documentation in the original packaging.
The foregoing
provisions regarding packaging shall not apply in circumstances
where the Licensee does not leave the original packaging with the
Subscriber and in such cases, the Subscriber shall return the
qualifying device and all accessories to the Licensee.

8.

Activating / Deactivating Telecommunication Services

8.1.

Subject to the provisions of sub-article 8.2, Licensees shall not register, charge
or otherwise avail a service to a Subscriber that the Subscriber has not expressly
ordered or opted to pay for. Subscribers shall not be deemed to have accepted
an offer for service simply by failing to opt-out of the offer.

8.2.

The provisions of sub-article 8.1 shall not apply in circumstances where an
existing service, that is to say a service that a Subscriber has expressly ordered,
is extended or renewed on terms which are:
8.2.1.

consistent with the terms of the contract for that existing service;

8.2.2.

unquestionably without prejudice to the Subscriber; or

8.2.3.

unquestionably to the advantage of the Subscriber.

8.3.

Licensees shall provide Subscribers with a PSCM to confirm the activation,
deactivation, or migration of each service and/or feature as appropriate.

8.4.

Licensees shall use reasonable efforts to offer Subscribers simple functionality
to cancel or block any additional value-added services which are provided by
default to Subscribers, upon subscription to main services, and which are
ancillary to those main services, and which generate usage charges when used.
Licensees shall make information about this functionality available in an easily
accessible manner and free of charge. Provided that such functionality is
consistent with this sub-article 8.4, in some cases a Subscriber may be required
to manually configure their equipment or service to cancel or block a value-added
service.

8.5.

Subject to the provisions of sub-article 8.6, Licensees shall ensure that the
methods to be used to cancel a service are equally convenient and no more
complex than the methods used for ordering that service. For instance, if one
can subscribe to any given service by SMS then it shall also be possible to use
SMS for the purposes of cancelling that service.

8.6.

The Subscriber shall not be required to visit a Licensee’s business centre in order
to cancel/de-activate individual services or features except in objectively justified
cases.
Page 20

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

8.7.

In circumstances where a Licensee requires a Subscriber to lodge a deposit with
that Licensee (e.g. security deposit for international roaming): that Licensee shall
have a procedure for returning such deposits to Subscribers. The procedure for
returning deposits shall not be restrictive and shall be no more onerous on the
Subscriber than the procedure used by the Licensee to collect such deposit.

8.8.

Where services are subject to upgrade or migration options, Subscribers shall be
provided with clear information regarding the upgrade or migration terms,
including any changes in service performance and any change in the tariff for the
service. Licensees may not upgrade or migrate a Subscriber without the express
permission of the Subscriber unless such upgrade is unquestionably without
prejudice to the Subscriber or is unquestionably to the advantage of the
Subscriber.

8.9.

‘Exit interviews’ may be conducted, provided that the Subscriber consents to the
interview, and the interview takes place after service cancellation.

8.10. For a period of one year following the deactivation of a telephone number by a
Licensee, that Licensee shall not under any circumstances reassign that
telephone number to another Subscriber unless:
8.10.1.

the Licensee has obtained the prior consent of the Subscriber to whom
the telephone number was assigned immediately prior to it being
deactivated; or

8.10.2.

the Licensee has obtained the prior written consent of the TRA.

8.11. In circumstances where, during a period of one year following the deactivation of
a telephone number by a Licensee, the Consumer to whom the number was
assigned immediately prior to deactivation, requests that Licensee to reactivate
the number for that Consumer, the Licensee shall reactivate and reassign that
number to that Consumer on the same (or equivalent) terms as were in operation
immediately prior to the time at which the number was deactivated.
9.

Price Transparency, and Service Consumption Monitoring

9.1.

Licensees shall make available a means by which Subscribers can, in real-time
(or as near to real-time as is reasonably practicable), and free of charge to the
Subscriber, easily monitor service consumption.

9.2.

The provisions of 9.1 shall mean that Subscribers will be able to monitor:
9.2.1.

The number of units consumed and the number of units remaining in
any allowance provided as part of any service bundle. This is to
include all forms of bundled allowances including but not limited to

Page 21

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

allowances for: bundled minutes; bundled data; and bundled
messages, etc.;
9.2.2.

Out-of-bundle consumption, including but not limited to: calls and
data-sessions made, as well as messages sent, and the charges
levied for such calls, data-sessions, and messages;

9.2.3.

For post-paid Subscribers, the total amount of charges applied, and
payments made, to the Subscriber’s account since the last invoice
was issued on the account; and

9.2.4.

For pre-paid Subscribers, the remaining pre-paid balance(s).

9.3.

Upon request, Licensees shall provide Subscribers with timely, accurate and upto-date information about the prices, conditions and options relevant to those
Subscribers.

10.

Hard-Caps on Mobile Data

10.1. The provisions of sub-articles 10.2 to 10.8 inclusive shall enter into force on the
date which is three (3) months after the date on which these Regulations are
issued.
PAYG Data
10.2. As from the date specified in 10.1, Licensees shall impose a PAYG Hard Cap on
the use of PAYG Data services by Subscribers;
10.3. The PAYG Hard Cap Limit will, by default, be set at AED 0 per day.
10.4. In circumstances where the retail charges incurred by a Subscriber, in any one
day, reach the PAYG Hard Cap Limit for that Subscriber, the concerned Licensee
shall suspend the provision of PAYG Data to that Subscriber for the remainder
of that day, unless that Subscriber takes specific action or actions to:
10.4.1.

refresh his/her PAYG Hard Cap for that day as further explained in
sub-article 10.5 or

10.4.2.

increase his/her PAYG Hard Cap Limit.

In all cases, Licensees shall capture, and maintain records of, the Subscriber’s
consent to refresh the PAYG Hard Cap and/or the Subscriber’s consent to
increase or decrease the PAYG Hard Cap Limit.
10.5. A Subscriber may refresh his/her PAYG Hard Cap and the effect of such action
shall apply during the day on which the refresh occurs only. A refresh of the Hard

Page 22

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

Cap will allow that Subscriber to consume a further tranche of PAYG Data up to
the next multiple of the PAYG Hard Cap Limit.
10.6. Licensees are encouraged to develop and provide easy-to-use mechanisms to
enable Subscribers who use PAYG Data to increase or decrease the monetary
limit of the PAYG Hard Cap on a personal basis.
10.7. It shall be possible for any given Subscriber to decrease the PAYG Hard Cap to
zero (AED 0) if that Subscriber wishes to do so.
10.8. The provisions in sub-articles 10.1 to 10.7 inclusive shall not apply in the
following cases:
10.8.1.

cases where business Subscribers10 use PAYG Data for the purposes
of running M2M and/or IoT type applications; or

10.8.2.

other objectively justified cases as may be defined from time to time
by the TRA.

Mobile Data Bundles
10.9. For all mobile data bundles11, the Licensees shall apply a Hard Cap, where the
Hard Cap is:
10.9.1.

applied free of charge to each Subscriber;

10.9.2.

is set at a level equivalent to the size of the data bundle in question
(e.g. for a data bundle of 100MB the Hard Cap shall equal 100MB,
and for a data bundle of 1GB the Hard Cap shall equal 1GB); and

10.9.3.

subject to the provisions of 10.10, applied in such a manner that
ensures that when a Subscriber has used all of the allowance in a
bundle, the Subscriber will not be able to use any more data of the
type specified in the data bundle in question 12 during the Out-ofbundle Period.

10.10. Licensees may not supply additional data to a Subscriber, during the Out-ofbundle Period, unless the Subscriber in question:
10.10.1.

subscribes to another mobile data bundle;

10

Subscribers who are juridical Persons
This includes all existing and new bundles
12 The Hard Cap applies to the type of data specified in the data bundle. For example, if the data bundle
is for ‘Social Data’ only, then the Hard Cap shall apply to ‘Social Data’ only. However, if the data bundle
applies to all data types, then the Hard Cap shall also apply to all data types.
11

Page 23

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

10.10.2.

specifically opts-in to be charged at an Out-of-bundle Rate for the
duration of the Out-of-bundle Period and the Licensee has recorded
the Subscriber’s consent to being charged at an Out-of-bundle Rate;
or

10.10.3.

specifically instructs the relevant licensee to remove the Hard Cap.

10.11. In circumstances where 10.10.1 applies, the Licensees shall ensure that the
Subscriber is protected against making overlapping subscriptions that would lead
to double charging.
10.12. In circumstances where 10.10.3 applies, there will be no Hard Cap for such
Subscribers provided always that the Licensee has recorded that Subscriber’s
instructions to have the Hard Cap removed.
10.13. The Subscriber shall not be charged for the mechanism by which the Subscriber
selects any of the options available in 10.10.
11.

Notification of Price Increases and Notification of Roaming Costs

11.1. Licensees shall offer Subscribers the opportunity to terminate their contracts
without penalty before an increase in price, or before any change in the terms
and conditions that has the effect of a price increase, takes effect.
11.2. Subject to the provisions of sub-article 11.3, Licensees shall provide Consumers
with notice at least twenty-eight (28) calendar days prior to implementing any
price increase, or any change in the terms and conditions that has the effect of a
price increase. Such notice shall be clear and unambiguous and at a minimum
shall provide: details of the existing price; the increased price; the date from
which the increased price is to become effective; and details of a mechanism by
which Subscribers may, pursuant to the provisions of sub-article 11.1 above, optout and terminate their contracts.
11.3. Licensees shall take all reasonable measures to provide the notice referred to in
sub-article 11.2 and in this context all ‘reasonable measures’ shall include:
advertisements in at least three (3) Arabic language national newspapers;
advertisements in at least two (2) English language national newspapers; a
prominent notice on the Licensee’s website; individual SMS messages to
Subscribers (where appropriate); and individual email messages to Subscribers
(where appropriate).
11.4. Subject to the provisions of sub-article 11.6, for mobile Subscribers on standard
roaming tariffs, Licensees shall, where possible and practicable, provide a facility
whereby the mobile Subscriber can be informed of the applicable retail roaming
prices for originating a call and SMS to the UAE and for receiving a call and SMS
from the UAE.
Page 24

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

11.5. Subject to the provisions of sub-article 11.6, for mobile Subscribers on standard
roaming tariffs, Licensees shall, where possible and practicable, provide a facility
whereby the mobile Subscriber can be informed of the applicable retail roaming
prices for data roaming fees.
11.6. The facilities referred to in sub-article 11.4 and sub-article 11.5 above, shall be
provided to the roaming mobile subscriber upon their first connection to a visited
network in a foreign country and shall be provided free of charge to the roaming
mobile customer.
12.

Subscriber Invoices and Receipts

12.1. Licensees shall take all reasonable measures to provide Subscribers who are
subscribed to post-paid services with accurate and transparent invoices. The
invoice shall: be in writing and shall set out the details of the charges contained
in the invoice, and the invoice shall be provided free of charge to the Subscriber.
12.2. Licensees shall take reasonable measures to create awareness of the
Subscriber’s right to receive invoices in paper form.
12.3. Subscriber invoices shall be provided at such intervals as is specified in the terms
and conditions relating to the supply of the particular service.
12.4. As a minimum, Subscriber invoices shall contain the following information:
12.4.1.

The name and registered address of the Licensee issuing the invoice;

12.4.2.

The Subscriber’s account number;

12.4.3.

The amount owing to the Licensee or, if applicable the amount owing
to the Subscriber (credit balance);

12.4.4.

Itemised details showing how all charges and credits on the invoice
have been calculated;

12.4.5.

The date by which payment is due to the Licensee;

12.4.6.

The method or methods by which payments can be made to the
Licensee;

12.4.7.

Point of contact details for Subscribers wishing to make enquiries
relating to the invoice and any charges therein.

12.5. A Licensee shall retain records of post-paid Subscriber’s Invoices for a period of
not less than two (2) years or for such longer period as may be mandated by any
competent authority.

Page 25

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

12.6. To the extent possible, Licensees shall automatically13 provide Subscribers with
a receipt for any payment submitted to the Licensee. Such receipts may be
provided in appropriate electronic format to an address 14 specified by the
Subscriber and held on file by the Licensee.
13.

Transparency in Fixed-Line Broadband Speeds

13.1. Subject to the provisions of sub-article 13.2, this Article 13 applies to all standard
fixed-line broadband connections provided in the UAE, regardless of the
technology used in the Access Line15 and regardless of whether such connection
is provided as a standalone service, or as part of a bundle of services.
13.2. From the date which is calculated as being three (3) months after the date on
which these Regulations are issued, all Advertisements concerning fixed-line
broadband packages, shall refer to the speeds that Consumers are likely to
experience during the busy hour. Licensees shall maintain data, based on tests
performed pursuant to 13.3, to support the speed claims made in such
Advertisements.
13.3. Licensees shall perform tests, using a statistically meaningful sample of
customer lines, to measure the upload and download speeds actually achieved
during the busy hour, when measured at the network termination point16 for each
variant of fixed-line broadband connection, and for each technology used in the
Access Line.
13.4. The provisions of sub-articles 13.1 to 13.3 inclusive shall not apply to:
13.4.1.

bespoke fixed-line broadband connections or packages that are
configured specifically to meet the requirements of a particular
customer; or

13.4.2.

other objectively justified cases as may be approved by the TRA from
time to time.

In this context “automatically” means that it shall not be necessary for the Consumer to take any specific
action to request a receipt. The duty is on the Licensee to supply a receipt for payments made whether
or not the Consumer requested the supply thereof.
14In this context “address” means an email address or telephone number for SMS messages.
15 Access Line means the connection from the customer’s premises to the local exchange or access
node.
16 The network termination point is the physical or logical point of demarcation between the Consumer’s
premises and the Licensee’s fixed-line network.
13

Page 26

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

14.

Activation and Deactivation of Additional Services

14.1. No charges related to Additional Services shall be added to a Subscriber’s
account unless the purchasing process for the concerned Additional Service
complies fully with the relevant provisions of this Article 14.
14.2. In cases of a Consumer Complaint and/or a Consumer Dispute involving a
disputed purchase of an Additional Service, the concerned Licensee shall be able
to demonstrate that the purchase process is in compliance, and in particular that
consent was obtained in accordance, with the relevant sub-articles herein.
14.3. To the extent feasible, Licensees shall make available appropriate mechanisms
for Subscribers, to use without charge to deactivate and cancel Additional
Services. For the avoidance of doubt, the conditions for deactivation or
cancellation shall follow the terms and conditions of the relevant Additional
Service.
14.4. To the extent feasible, following the deactivation of an Additional Service, the
Subscriber shall be provided with a PSCM to confirm that the Additional Service
has been deactivated.
14.5. The following conditions shall apply in circumstances where an Additional
Service is purchased at a Licensee’s business centre:
14.5.1.

the Subscriber shall be physically present at the point of sale;

14.5.2.

the Licensee shall verify the identity of the Subscriber;

14.5.3.

the Licensee shall obtain the Subscriber’s consent, by signature, to
the terms and conditions for the Additional Service;

14.5.4.

the Subscriber shall be provided with a written copy of the terms and
conditions for the Additional Service at the point of sale, or if the
Subscriber prefers, post point of sale via physical mail or electronic
message at the direction of the Subscriber; and

14.5.5.

the Subscriber shall be provided with full details of how the Additional
Service can be cancelled.

14.6. The following conditions shall apply in circumstances where an Additional
Service is purchased via a telephone call to/from a Licensee’s call centre:
14.6.1.

the Licensee shall verify the identity of the Subscriber by asking the
relevant security questions, or by following such other procedures
used by the Licensee for identification purposes;

Page 27

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

14.6.2.

the Licensee shall provide the Subscriber with an explanation of the
terms and conditions of the Additional Service prior to sale;

14.6.3.

the Licensee shall record the Subscriber giving verbal consent to the
terms and conditions for the Additional Service; and

14.6.4.

the Licensee shall maintain a recording of the complete conversation
for a period of not less than [6] months; and

14.6.5.

as soon as is reasonably practicable after purchase, the Subscriber
shall be provided with:
(a) a Post-Subscription Confirmation Message (PSCM); and
(b) a written copy of the terms and conditions for the Additional
Service sent via electronic message, or if the Subscriber so
requests, by physical mail.

14.7. The following conditions shall apply in circumstances where an Additional
Service is purchased via interactive electronic communications (for example by
SMS or USSD etc.) between a Consumer and a Licensee.
14.7.1.

the Licensee shall provide the principal terms and conditions of the
Additional Service to the Consumer;

14.7.2.

the purchase process shall necessitate the Consumer to provide
consent to the purchase of the Additional Service by involving the
same means of electronic communications using SMS or USSD etc.;
and

14.7.3.

as soon as is reasonably practicable after purchase, the Subscriber
shall be provided with:
(a) a PSCM; and
(b) a written copy of the terms and conditions for the Additional
Service sent via electronic message, or if the Subscriber so
requests, by physical mail.

14.8. The following conditions shall apply in circumstances where the purchase of an
Additional Service is made via a TV remote control unit:
14.8.1.

the user shall be required to enter a PIN code for each and every
purchase of content, including but not limited to: movies, VOD,
premium channels, pay-per-view programmes, etc.;

Page 28

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

14.8.2.

it shall not be possible to purchase content by the entry of a default
PIN; and

14.8.3.

as soon as is reasonably practicable after purchase, the Subscriber
shall be provided with a PSCM.

14.9. To the extent feasible, the following conditions shall apply in circumstances
where the purchase of an Additional Service is made online, or via an in-App
purchase, or via a device such as a gaming terminal, or any other such device
that could be so used and is not specifically covered elsewhere in these
Regulations:
14.9.1.

the Consumer shall be informed of the principal terms and conditions
of the Additional Service;

14.9.2.

for each purchase the Consumer shall be required to physically enter
a one-time password (OTP) to confirm consent to the purchase of the
Additional Service;

14.9.3.

Licensees shall maintain records to be able to demonstrate that the
OTP was used in the purchase process and in the case of disputed
purchase or subscription, the concerned Licensee may be called upon
to produce such evidence as necessary to unequivocally demonstrate
that the purchase process complied with these Regulations and that
the OTP was entered during the purchase process.

14.9.4.

where Consumers are offered on-screen, yes/no options as part of the
purchase process, the ‘no’ option shall always be set as the default
answer to avoid accidental ‘yes’ answers; and

14.9.5.

as soon as is reasonably practicable after purchase, the Subscriber
shall be provided with:
(a) a PSCM; and
(b) a written copy of the terms and conditions for the Additional
Service sent via electronic message, or if the Subscriber so
requests, by physical mail.

15.

Fair Use Policies

15.1. Fair use policies (FUP) shall be designed to be fair and reasonable to both the
Licensee and the Subscriber.
15.2. Licensees shall publish their fair use policies and take all reasonable steps to
make them available to Consumers upon request. Prior to entering into a

Page 29

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

contract for a service which is subject to a fair use policy the Licensee shall inform
the Consumer that the service is subject to a fair use policy and upon the
Consumer’s request take all reasonable steps to accurately explain the fair use
policy.
15.3. For the FUP to be fair and reasonable it must affect only atypical Subscribers,
that is to say excessively heavy users that form a small minority of the customer
base for the particular service. Pursuant to the provisions of 22.16 and 22.17
above, no service that is subject to a fair use policy shall be advertised as
‘unlimited’17.
16.

Disconnection Due to Non-Payments of Invoices

16.1. Where a Subscriber has not, within the time limits stipulated in the contract, paid
the Licensee all or part of an invoice for services provided by a Licensee, any
measures taken by that Licensee to effect payment or disconnection shall:
16.1.1.

where-ever possible 18 , be preceded by an individual notice and
appropriate warning to the Subscriber in advance of any resulting
service interruption or disconnection and;

16.1.2.

where-ever possible, confine any service interruption or disconnection
to the services concerned as far as is technically feasible.

16.2. In the warning referred to in sub-article 16.1.1, Licensees shall specify the
necessary Subscriber actions required to avoid non-payment disconnection and
shall describe the resulting implications and consequences of not doing so.
16.3. Licensees shall attempt to limit service disconnection to the service(s) causing
the disconnection. The Licensee shall not restrict the Subscriber’s usage of
basic, non-substitutable services unless that service is the cause of the
disconnection. However, if the service is supplied as part of a bundled product,
the Licensee may, at its discretion, disconnect the whole bundle. This article may
be disregarded if an authorised official of a competent authority in the interest of
public or national security requests the disconnection action.
16.4. Licensees shall provide Subscribers with continued accessibility to emergency
numbers during the intermediate service interruption phases preceding the final
service disconnection.

In this context the term “unlimited” shall be construed to mean ‘unlimited and any synonyms, variations
and derivatives of that term’
18 In the event of a Consumer Dispute arising out of these provisions for service disconnection, it shall be
for the Licensee to demonstrate that it was not possible for the Licensee to provide the individual notice
and warning.
17

Page 30

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

17.

Repair of Faults and Restoration of Service

17.1. In the event of service being interrupted or impaired due to a network fault,
Licensees shall take all reasonable steps to repair the fault and restore service
as quickly as possible.
17.2. Licensees shall not charge customers for the cost of network repairs, nor will
Licensees charge for technician visits relevant to those repairs as referred to in
sub-article 17.1.
18.

Privacy of Subscriber Information

18.1. Licensees shall take all reasonable and appropriate measures to prevent the
unauthorised disclosure or the un-authorised use of Subscriber Information.
18.2. Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-article 18.1, a
Licensee may disclose Subscriber Information if such disclosure is:
18.2.1.

permitted by law;

18.2.2.

expressly permitted by the Subscriber in question;

18.2.3.

expressly permitted by any provision in these Regulations or any other
aspect of the Regulatory Framework;

18.2.4.

made in the course of the Licensee making a credit check with a
reputable credit reporting agency;

18.2.5.

made in response to a lawful request by law enforcement agencies to
assist in the investigation of criminal activity;

18.2.6.

made in response to a lawful request from any competent authority in
relation to matters involving the public interests and/or matters of state
security; or

18.2.7.

made to the TRA in accordance with these Regulations.

18.3. Licensees shall take all reasonable measures to protect the privacy of Subscriber
Information that it maintains in its files, whether in electronic or paper form.
Licensees shall use reliable security measures against risks such as loss or
unauthorised access, destruction, leakage, inappropriate use, modification
and/or unauthorised disclosure.
18.4. Licensees shall limit access to Subscriber Information to its trained and
authorised personnel who will include the Licensee’s employees, directors,
independent contractors and consultants, who are bound to protect the

Page 31

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

Licensees confidential information (which includes Subscriber Information) from
un-authorised use and disclosure under the terms of a written agreement.
Licensees shall ensure that personnel engaged in the handling of Subscriber
Information are fully aware of, and adequately trained in the Licensee’s security
and privacy protection practices.
18.5. Licensees must obtain a Subscriber’s prior consent 19 before sharing any
Subscriber Information with its affiliates and/or other third parties not directly
involved in the provision of the telecommunications services ordered by the
Subscriber.
18.6. Licensees who have access to Subscriber Information as a result of
interconnection with another Licensee are strictly prohibited from using that
Subscriber Information for any purposes other than interconnection. In particular,
that data may not be used for any marketing purposes or anti-competitive
practices.
18.7. Licensees shall not require Subscribers to provide any personal information
related to any other person 20 that is not essential and directly related to the
provision of the service ordered, unless the Licensee is required to collect such
information and data under the specific instructions of a competent authority
acting in the interest of public safety or national security.
18.8. In circumstances where it is necessary to provide Subscriber Information to
affiliates or other third parties who are directly involved in the supply of the
telecommunications services ordered by Subscribers, the third-parties are
required to take all reasonable and appropriate measures to protect the
confidentiality and security of the Subscriber Information and to use it only as
required for the purposes of providing the telecommunication service. Licensees
shall ensure that the contract between them and any affiliate or other third party
holds that third party responsible for the privacy and protection of the Subscriber
Information.
18.9. In circumstances where a Subscriber requests the Licensee to disclose his or
her own Subscriber Information to that Subscriber, the Licensee shall disclose it
free of charge and without delay after an adequate verification process.
18.10. The TRA may request any Licensee to provide the TRA with any Subscriber
Information that is essential to enable the TRA to fulfil its duties. Any such
request shall be made in writing and the Licensee to which the request is

19

Which consent may be provided contractually at the point in time at which the Subscriber Contract is
formed provided always that a mechanism exists whereby the Subscriber may withdraw that consent,
“opt-out” at a later stage if the Subscriber so wishes.
20 e.g.: the name and/or contact details of friends and family members.

Page 32

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

addressed shall take all reasonable measures to supply the requested
Subscriber Information as directed by the TRA.
18.11. The TRA may, upon serving reasonable notice to a Licensee, visit the premises
of a Licensee or its affiliate(s) where Subscriber Information is stored by that
Licensee or its affiliate(s) in order that the TRA can review the security measures
taken by the Licensee or its affiliate(s) with respect to maintaining the security of
that Subscriber Information. In the event that the TRA, acting reasonably, is not
satisfied with the security arrangements at some particular premises, the TRA
reserves the right to instruct the Licensee, or instruct the Licensee to instruct its
affiliate(s), to strengthen the security arrangements at that particular premises or
relocate the storage of Subscriber Information to a more secure premises as may
be deemed appropriate, and justified, by the TRA.
19.

On-line Directory Information and Directory Enquiries

19.1. General
19.1.1.

Unless specifically stated otherwise, the provisions of this Article 19
regarding the mandatory publication of printed directory information
apply to the provision, by each Licensee, of consolidated directory
information in an on-line format only. Subject to the provisions of
Article 18, Licensees are not prevented, from printing other hardcopy
or electronic (e.g. CD, DVD, or software application etc.) directories in
whatever form they see fit.

19.1.2.

Licensees assigning telephone numbers shall provide directory
information. Such information shall be made available on-line
(directory information service) and on a call-by-call enquiry basis
(directory enquiry service). Access to on-line directory information
services shall be provided free of charge. Licensees may levy
charges for voice calls to directory enquiry services and Licensees
shall publish the cost of such calls.

19.1.3.

Licensees shall use all reasonable methods to ensure directory
information is accurate and up-to-date.

19.1.4.

The provisions of 19.1.2 regarding: directory information services; and
directory enquiry services, shall become effective immediately.

19.1.5.

A Licensee shall not give prominence to the publication (directory
information service) or provision (directory enquiry service) of
directory information relating to Subscribers of that Licensee over the
publication or provision of directory information relating to Subscribers
of another Licensee. That is to say, Licensees shall apply the principle
of non-discrimination to the treatment of directory information.
Page 33

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

19.1.6.

Nothing in these regulations prevent a Licensee from including third
party advertisements or other value-added services in its on-line
directory information service. However, a licensee may not require a
visiting Consumer to view a certain number of advertisements before
allowing the Consumer to search for information in the directory or
before returning the results of any such search to the Consumer.
Advertisements and links to other value-added services could, for
instance, be displayed simultaneously within the ‘search bar’ and/or
within the page(s) showing the results of any search.

19.2. Directory Information – natural persons
19.2.1.

Directory information for Subscribers being natural persons shall
contain, at a minimum:
a)
b)
c)

19.2.2.

Name;
City; and
Telephone number

Licensees may not publish directory information relating to a natural
person without the express prior permission of that natural person.
After such consent has been given, Licensees shall allow Subscribers
to withdraw that consent should the Subscriber wish to do so.

19.3. Directory Information – legal entities
19.3.1.

Directory information for Subscribers being legal entities shall contain,
at a minimum:
a) Name;
b) P.O. Box and City; and
c) Telephone number.

19.3.2.

Licensees shall offer their Subscribers (legal entities) the option not to
have their directory information published.

19.4. Directory Information – Charges for Publication
19.4.1.

Licensees shall as a minimum offer a free of charge – basic level of
service in the on-line publication of directory information. Such basic
level of service shall meet the provisions of 19.2 or 19.3 as appropriate
to the type of Subscriber in question and shall be provided without
cost to the Subscriber.

19.4.2.

Subject to the provisions of 19.1.5, Licensees may offer such
enhanced directories as the Licensee sees fit. Such enhanced
services could for instance include bold, boxed, or colour listings and
Page 34

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

may include addition information such as logos, location plans and
maps, directions etc. Licensees may charge Subscribers for such
enhanced services at the Licensee’s published rates provided that the
Subscriber is informed that the Subscriber may opt for a free of charge
basic level service.
19.5. On-line Directory
19.5.1.

Each Licensee shall provide an on-line portal designed to provide
Consumers with easy access to directory information. The manner in
which Consumers may search for directory information shall be
Licensee neutral. In this regard, Consumers shall not be obliged to
follow
different
procedures
or
apply
different
search
techniques/strings to obtain information based on the fact that
different Licensees have assigned telephone numbers.

19.5.2.

Licensees shall ensure that main emergency service numbers of
Police, Ambulance & Civil Defence are prominently displayed, and a
clear reference to a full list of all other emergency numbers is given,
in all directories including any enhanced directory a Licensee may
elect to publish.

19.6. Directory Enquiry

20.

19.6.1.

Directory Enquiry information shall be consolidated in a single source,
regardless of which Licensee assigns the telephone number.
Consumers shall not be obliged to make multiple calls to obtain
directory information based on the fact that different Licensees have
assigned telephone numbers.

19.6.2.

In case directory enquiries are priced on a time basis, Licensees may
only charge for the duration of the transaction, that is to say the actual
time spent on the call for the purpose of the enquiry itself and not for
the time spent waiting in a queuing system.

Consumer Complaints and Consumer Disputes

20.1. Licensees shall establish and maintain procedures to handle Consumer
Complaints and support the handling of Consumer Disputes by the TRA.
20.2. Licensees shall provide information to Consumers, which describe(s) how, when
and where a Consumer Complaint may be filed. This information shall be easily
obtainable by Consumers.
20.3. Licensees shall provide adequate provision to ensure that people with physical
disabilities or other special needs are able to access the Licensee’s complaint
Page 35

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

handling process. Licensees shall ensure that consumers with physical disability
can be easily represented by their authorised representatives in order to make a
complaint; providing a means of authorisation can be easily established and
verified.
20.4. Licensees shall provide Consumers with at least one method of registering
Consumer Complaints free of charge to the Consumer.
20.5. Licensees shall reasonably assist any Consumer, so requesting, to formulate
and to lodge a Consumer Complaint with the Licensee.
20.6. Licensees methods for lodging Consumer Complaints should not unduly deter
Consumers from making a complaint to the Licensee.
20.7. Licensees shall advise Consumers when they make a complaint of the indicative
time frame required for the Licensee to investigate and resolve the complaint.
20.8. Licensees shall acknowledge the receipt of each Consumer Complaint by
providing the complainant with a reference number for the complaint. Such
acknowledgement shall be provided immediately, in the case of complaints
submitted by telephone or personal visit, and within five (5) business days in the
case of a written complaint.
20.9. Conclusion of Consumer Complaints:
20.9.1.

Where possible, Licensees shall seek to resolve a Consumer
Complaint on first contact.

20.9.2.

Generally, Licensees shall conclude Consumer Complaints within
thirty (30) business days after receipt or as soon as practical in all
circumstances.

20.9.3.

Licensees shall enable the complainant to make enquiries regarding
the progress of the complainant’s case.

20.9.4.

If the period for conclusion takes longer than thirty (30) business days,
Licensees shall inform the complainant as to progress and the
expected conclusion date.

20.9.5.

At the conclusion of the Licensee’s examination of a Consumer
Complaint, the Licensee shall inform the complainant of the outcome
of the case and the offered remedies, if applicable.

20.10. Consumer Complaint – Records and Reports
20.10.1.

Licensees shall maintain records of Consumer Complaints for a
minimum period of two (2) years, or such other period as may be

Page 36

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

specified in the Licence, after the conclusion of individual Consumer
Complaints.
20.10.2.

Licensees shall submit monthly reporting data to the TRA in
accordance with separate instructions issued by the TRA and
amended from time to time.

20.11. Consumer Disputes

21.

20.11.1.

The TRA shall advise the Licensee of a Consumer Dispute and the
Licensee shall respond to the TRA within three (3) business days of
the TRA providing such advice to the Licensee.

20.11.2.

During the course of the Licensee’s handling of Consumer Complaints
and/or the TRA's handling of Consumer Disputes, the TRA may direct
a Licensee to restore a Consumer’s service in whole or in part, or to
implement any other remedy deemed reasonable and appropriate by
the TRA.

20.11.3.

At the conclusion of the Licensee’s investigation of a Consumer
Dispute and pending the final resolution of the matter, the Licensee
shall contact and advise the Consumer of the outcome of the case.

20.11.4.

At the conclusion of the TRA’s handling of Consumer Dispute, the
TRA may direct a Licensee to undertake any remedy deemed
reasonable and appropriate by the TRA.

20.11.5.

The TRA’s Consumer Dispute procedures are set out in Annex 1 to
these Regulations.

Audit of Billing Systems

21.1. The Licensees shall audit their respective billing systems and submit signed audit
reports to the TRA at such intervals as the TRA will specify separately to each
Licensee.
22.

Advertising

Persons subject to Article 22
22.1. Licensees shall take all reasonable measures to ensure compliance with this
Article 22. This includes taking all reasonable measures to ensure compliance
with this Article 22 by Advertising Partners, used to carry out any activity or
activities which are subject to Article 22.

Page 37

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

Activities subject to Article 22
22.2. Article 22 shall apply to any direct or indirect Advertising or any other activity
which has the same or similar effect and relates to, promotes, refers or relies on,
any product or service or Person which is regulated by virtue of the
Telecommunications Law, a Licence or any regulatory instrument issued by the
TRA pursuant to the Telecommunications Law.
Overarching Obligations
22.3. All Persons subject to Article 22 must ensure that all Advertising shall:
22.3.1.

be fair, truthful, honest and accurate, and shall not, by act or omission,
directly or by implication, mislead, or deceive Consumers;

22.3.2.

not exploit inexperience or credulity;

22.3.3.

not incite, encourage or appear to condone unlawful, unsafe, antisocial, violent or immoral behaviour or practices or play on fear or
exploit misfortune or suffering;

22.3.4.

respect and apply the social, cultural, moral and religious values that
apply generally within the UAE and shall provide adequate protection
for members of the public from the exposure to harmful and/or
offensive material. Advertising shall not induce, encourage or validate
any behaviour that is inconsistent with the social, cultural, moral or
religious values which apply generally within the UAE. Material which
is generally not acceptable includes, but is not limited to, offensive
language, violence, sex, nudity, sexual violence, humiliation, violation
of human dignity, discriminatory treatment or language, derogatory
treatment of religious subjects and values, with particular regard to the
sensitivities of Islam, and the use of drugs, alcohol and tobacco; and

22.3.5.

comply with all applicable laws of the UAE.

22.4. When Persons subject to Article 22 are in doubt if something in an Advertisement
will be in compliance with Article 22, they should err on the side of caution and
ensure compliance.
Substantiation and Compliance
22.5. Licensees shall hold evidence (documentary, video, audio, etc) as may be
necessary which they can produce on request by the TRA so as to prove to the
TRA’s reasonable satisfaction that all statements, facts, claims etc, whether
direct or implied, made in an Advertisement are accurate and that the
Advertisement is in compliance with these Regulations. Licensees shall retain
such evidence for a period of one year after the cessation of the relevant
Advertising activity.

Page 38

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

Context of the Advertisement
22.6. In considering whether an Advertisement is compliant with any aspect of Article
22 the following shall be relevant considerations:
22.6.1.

the context, nature and form of the Advertisement as a whole;

22.6.2.

the details and nature of the product or service being Advertised;

22.6.3.

the media used (e.g. TV, radio, printed matter) and its characteristics;
and

22.6.4.

the targeted audience including its characteristics, needs, level of
technical expertise and vulnerability.

Children
22.6.5.

Advertisements aimed at children shall take into account their special
sensitivities and sensibilities and shall avoid undue or exploitive
pressure.

Prices and Terms and Conditions
22.7. References to prices, services, and terms and conditions shall be clear and
transparent and shall not mislead, confuse or deceive or be likely to mislead,
confuse or deceive Consumers. If it is not practical, for objectively valid reasons,
to include the details of all prices, terms and conditions in the respective
Advertisement, then an explanation of the means and manner of accessing full
information shall be included in the particular Advertisement.
22.8. New or changed prices or services shall not be Advertised or announced or
otherwise referred to in any Advertising unless such price or service is in
compliance with the TRA’s Regulatory Framework.
22.9. Any footnotes, qualifiers, or disclaimers in Advertising shall, where relevant, be
clearly visible and legible, audibly apparent and understandable and shall not
contradict, materially qualify or otherwise alter the basis of the Advertisement.
For the avoidance of doubt this does not preclude the inclusion in an
Advertisement of references to detailed terms and conditions being provided
elsewhere. However, these terms and conditions should not have the effect of
contradicting or materially qualifying or otherwise altering the basics of any claim
made or implied in the Advertisement.
22.10. In the event that any statement made by a Licensee is misquoted in the media,
to the extent that the misquote does, or may, result in an apparent breach of
these Regulations, the Licensee shall take reasonable steps to procure a
retraction or correction or other appropriate remedial action concerning the
misquoted statement(s) in the same medium in which the erroneous statement(s)
was/were published.

Page 39

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

Broadband Speeds
22.11. Claims concerning fixed-line broadband download and upload speeds shall
comply with the provisions of Article 13.
22.12. Where fixed-line broadband speeds might differ from area to area, Licensees
should exercise care in the way such speeds are described in their
Advertisements.
Testimonials, endorsements and other Advertising statements
22.13. Testimonials and endorsements, or edited portions thereof, used in
Advertisements shall be clear, accurate and documented, and shall be clearly
identifiable as representing the opinion of the individual or entity issuing the
statement or expressing the position. If the individual or entity is being
compensated for the testimonial and/or endorsement, this shall be clearly stated
in all materials featuring the testimonial and/or endorsement where it is
reasonably necessary for the Consumer to discern that the testimonial or
endorsement is an advertisement for which the individual or entity has been
compensated.
22.14. The term “free”, shall not be used in any Advertising unless:
22.14.1.

it is used in relation to an offer which involves no monetary obligation
whatsoever; or

22.14.2.

the only obligation is to pay shipping and/or handling charges and
these charges do not exceed the reasonable retail price for the actual
handling, transport or delivery of the product or service; or

22.14.3.

it is used in conjunction with the purchase of a separate product or
service, provided the price of the accompanying product or service
has not been increased in concurrence with its inclusion in the offer.

22.15. The provisions of 22.14 shall be deemed not to have been breached when the
term “free” is used to accurately describe bundled services or elements of a
bundled service when these are included/bundled for “free”. For example, the
use of phrases such as: “the price of the plan includes xx free SMSs per month”,
or “the price of the plan includes xx Mb/Gb of free data usage per month” would
be acceptable provided always that such details are true and accurate.

Page 40

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

22.16. The term “unlimited”21 shall not be used in any Advertising unless the service is
provided without any limitation 22 save for inherent limitations found in any
network.
22.17. By no later than the date which is two (2) months after the date on which these
Regulations enter into force Licensees shall remove all Advertisements that use
the term “unlimited” unless the Advertisement in question relates to a service that
this supplied without limitation in compliance with 22.16 above.
Comparative Advertising and Denigration
22.18. Comparative Advertisements are permissible, so long as these comply with these
Regulations. In addition, Comparative Advertisements shall:
22.18.1.

not unfairly criticise, discredit, or denigrate other Licensees or their
services, products, trademarks, trade names or other distinguishing
marks;

22.18.2.

refrain from judgments and opinions about the other Licensees or their
products or services;

22.18.3.

rely solely on objective statements and facts that can be clearly
substantiated, and which are not been unfairly selected or presented;

22.18.4.

address either comparable offers or comparable services.

22.19. If the comparison is only valid in limited circumstances, it should be avoided
unless this can be clearly explained in the Advertisement. Where for example the
comparison is only valid if the user calls at a particular time of day, during a
limited period or to a particular country, then this limitation shall be clearly stated
in all materials featuring the comparison.
22.20. If a Comparative Advertisement compares prices with different charging
mechanisms, the difference shall be clearly explained in all materials featuring
the comparison.
22.21. Advertisers should always exercise the utmost care when using Comparative
Advertising.
Imitation and Identity
22.22. No Advertising shall so closely resemble an Advertisement previously issued by
another Licensee in respect to the general layout, text, slogan, visual appearance
In this context the term “unlimited” shall be construed to mean ‘unlimited and any synonyms, variations
and derivatives of that term’
22 Not limited or restricted in any way including but not limited to restrictions in terms of number, quantity,
speed, or extent, or quality, etc.
21

Page 41

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

or audio characteristics that the resemblance will, or be likely to, mislead, confuse
or deceive consumers.
22.23. In all Advertisements it should be clear to Consumers who is the Person that will
be legally responsible to them for the product or service that is Advertised.
Harassment or Coercion
22.24. Advertising shall not be unduly intrusive or coercive and shall not harass or be
likely to harass Consumers. Some factors that may be considered in making
such a determination include the timing, nature and persistence of the
Advertising.
22.25. Licensees shall ensure that they, as well as Advertising Partners that they use
for Advertising purposes, have in place the necessary systems so as to comply
with requests by Consumers (orally or in writing) not to be contacted for
Advertising purposes at specific times or through specific means or at all.
Advertisements of products or services which use a Premium Charge Number
22.26. Licensees shall procure that adequate and appropriate safeguards are in place
with any Person, including their own business, to which they supply a Premium
Charge Number used to provide or charge for the provision of services or
products are aware and, where appropriate, contractually bound, to comply with
the provisions of this sub-article and sub-article 22.27:
22.27. Advertisements displaying a Premium Charge Number shall:
22.27.1.

clearly state the call/messaging charges (inclusive of all taxes, if any);
and

22.27.2.

note the prices in the form of numerical price per minute for time
based/charged services or the relevant charge unit or the total
maximum cost to the Consumer.

Promotions with Prizes
22.28. Promotions using Prizes must be prepared with a sense of responsibility and
comply with the spirit, not merely the letter, of these Regulations. Promotions
with prizes shall:
22.28.1.

be communicated in a manner that is clear and readily understandable
by the intended audience;

22.28.2.

not create confusion between “gifts” and “prizes”;

22.28.3.

ensure that all rules, entry instructions, dates or deadlines and factors
likely to influence a Consumer’s understanding of the promotion are
clearly stated and Advertisements explain these accurately,
unambiguously and completely. If it is not practical, for valid reasons,
Page 42

The Consumer Protection Regulations, Version 1.4, Issued 20 March 2019

to include all such details in the Advertisement, then the means and
manner of accessing the full information shall be included in all
materials featuring the Promotion;

23.

22.28.4.

be demonstrably fair and participation shall not be impeded by, for
example, including complex rules or applying unreasonable conditions
to participation or collecting prizes;

22.28.5.

fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the UAE.

Publication of Regulations

23.1. The TRA shall publish these Regulations in full on its website.
24.

Final Provisions and Effective date

24.1. Unless a contrary intention is specifically stated for specific provisions contained
herein, these Regulations enter into force on the day on which they are issued.
24.2. The following instruments are hereby repealed:
24.2.1.

The Mandatory Instructions regarding Subscriptions to Third Party
Applications (MI) issued on 1 February 2017;

24.2.2.

The Extended Mandatory Instructions regarding Subscriptions to
Third Party Applications (EMI) issued on 30 April 2017;

24.2.3.

Directive No. 1 of 2016 regarding Mandated Automatic Application of
Hard Cap Limits on all Mobile Data Bundles.

24.2.4.

The
instruments:
TRA/RA/18/1616,
TRA/RA/18/1638,
TRA/RA/18/1639, and TRA/RA/18/1640 as issued individually to
Licensees on 15 October 2018 regarding contract exit fees.

24.2.5.

The instruments: TRA/RA/17/1814 and TRA/RA/17/1815, as issued
individually to Licensees on 23 October 2017 and the instruments:
TRA/RA/17/1955 and TRA/RA/17/1956, as issued individually to
Licensees on 5 December 2017 regarding use of the term “unlimited”
in Advertisements.

Page 43

