*Federal

Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

THE ARABIC VERSION OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAW SHALL
PREVAIL IN CASE OF ANY DISCREPANCY
COPYRIGHT © 2005 • TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Telecommunications Regulatory Authority
P O Box 26662
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
Tel: +971 2 6212222 Fax +971 2 6212227
www.tra.ae

*

Published in the Official Gazette – Edition 411 – Year 34 – Safar 1425H – April 2004.

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

FEDERAL LAW BY DECREE NO. 3 OF 2003
REGARDING THE ORGANISATION OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION SECTOR

We, Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, President of the State of the United Arab Emirates,
In cognisance of the Constitution, and
Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Regarding the Functions of Ministries and the Powers of Ministers
and the amending laws thereof, and
Federal Law No. (7) of 1973 Regarding Radio Communications and Apparatus and the amending
laws thereof, and
Federal Law No. (7) of 1976 Regarding the Audit Bureau as amended, and
Federal Law No. (8) of 1984 Regarding Commercial Companies and the amending laws thereof,
and
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 Issuing the Civil Transactions Code and the amending laws thereof,
and
Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 issuing the Penal Code, and
Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 Regarding Emirates Telecommunications Corporation, and
Federal law No. (10) of 1992 Issuing the Law of Evidence in Civil and Commercial Transactions,
and
Federal Law No. (18) of 1993 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Code, and
Federal Law No. (7) of 1999 Regarding Pensions and Social Security, and
on the basis of the proposal of the Prime Minister and the agreement of the Council of Ministers,
have issued the following Federal Law by Decree:

3

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 1
INTERPRETATION
Article (1)
Definitions
In applying this Federal Law by Decree, the following terms shall have the following meanings
unless the context requires otherwise:
“Authority”

“Board”

the General Authority
Telecommunication Sector.

for

Regulating

the

the Board of Directors of the Authority.

“Board Members”

such persons as may be appointed to the Board in
accordance with the provisions of this Federal Law by
Decree.

“Chairman”

the chairman of the board of directors of the
Authority.

“Director General”

the Director General of the Authority.

“Etisalat”

the Emirates Telecommunications Corporation
regulated by Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 Regarding
Emirates Telecommunications Corporation.

“Executive Order”

the executive order issued pursuant to this Federal
Law by Decree.

“Government”

the government of the State of the United Arab
Emirates.

“Interconnection”

the linking by whatever means of Telecommunication
Networks in order to allow users of one entity to
communicate with users of the same or another entity
or enabling the users to make use of
Telecommunication Services provided by another
entity.

“Interconnection Agreement”

an agreement under which the interconnection will be
achieved pursuant to the rules and conditions issued
by the Authority.

“Licence”

a licence issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order which
allows the Licensee to carry out any of the Regulated
Activities.

“Licensees”

Etisalat and such entities as may be licensed by the
Supreme Committee pursuant to the provisions of this
Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order.
4

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

“Private Land”

any land owned by, granted to or leased to any
person other than any Public Institution.

“Private Telecommunication Network”

a Telecommunication Network operated exclusively to
serve the requirements and to benefit one person or a
group of persons who have a common ownership.

“Public Institution(s)”

all federal ministries and local departments,
authorities and public organisations linked thereto,
including the armed forces, the police, the intelligence
and security services of the State but excluding any
commercial company or establishment owned by any
of the foregoing or in which any of the foregoing may
have an interest.

“Public Land”

all land under the control or ownership of any Public
Institution but excluding any Private Land.

“Public Telecommunication Network”

a Telecommunication Network operated by the
Public
Licensee
for
the
provision
of
Telecommunication Services by the Licensee
pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by
Decree.

“Public Telecommunication Service”

any Telecommunication Service provided to users or
a part thereof in consideration of a fee.

“Regulated Activity”

either the operation of a Public Telecommunication
Network or the supply of a Telecommunication
Service to users and all other types of services
specified by the Supreme Committee pursuant to the
provisions of this Federal Law by Decree.

“State”

the United Arab Emirates.

“Supreme Committee”

the committee established for the supervision of the
telecommunication sector pursuant to the provisions
of Article (2) of this Federal Law by Decree.

“Telecommunication Apparatus”

apparatus made or adapted for use in transmitting,
receiving or conveying any of the Telecommunication
Services through a Telecommunication Network.

“Telecommunication Network”

a system comprising one or more items of apparatus
or means of communication medium for broadcasting,
transmission,
switching
or
receiving
of
Telecommunication Services, by means of electric,
magnetic, electro-magnetic, electro-chemical or
electro-mechanical energy and any other means of
communication medium.

5

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

“Telecommunication Service”

the service of transmitting, broadcasting, switching or
receiving by means of a Telecommunication Network
of any of the following:
1.
wired and
telecommunications;

wireless

cable

and

radio

2. voice, music and other sounds;
3. visual images;
4. signals used in transmission other than the
production and broadcasting of programmes;
5. signals used to operate or control any machinery
or apparatus;
6. the installation, maintenance, adjustment, repair,
replacement moving, or removal of apparatus which is
or will be connected to a Public Telecommunication
Network;
7. the installation, maintenance and operation of
networks for telegraph, telephone, telex, leased
circuits, domestic and international data networks,
internet and wireless transmission;
8. any other Telecommunications Services approved
by the Supreme Committee.
but does not include any services used in the
production and broadcasting of programmes.
“Wireless Transmission”

the transmitting or receiving of electro-magnetic
energy which may be used for the conveyance of
data, or messages or voice or visual images, or for
the operation or control of machinery or apparatus.

6

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 2
SUPREME COMMITTEE FOR THE SUPERVISION
OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION SECTOR
Article (2)

*It

is hereby established a committee for the purposes of supervising the telecommunication
sector called the “Supreme Committee for the Supervision of the Telecommunication Sector”. It
shall be comprised of four members (including the Chairman) representing the Ministry of
Presidential Affairs, the Court of the Vice President of the State, Ruler of the Emirate of Dubai
and the Council of Ministers. The members of the Supreme Committee shall be appointed by a
Federal Decree and shall be remunerated for their membership in the Supreme Committee. The
Supreme Committee shall have all powers necessary for it to carry out its authorities as
prescribed by this Federal Law by Decree.
Article (3)

The Supreme Committee shall have the sole and exclusive authority to:
1.

issue the Executive Order of this Federal Law by Decree;

2.

establish and oversee the general policy for the telecommunication sector in the State;

3.

issue any general guidance or instructions relating to the telecommunication sector and
necessary for national security or international relations;

4.

issue resolutions, rules, regulations, and instructions regarding the implementation of this
Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order including resolutions for establishing
entities operating in the telecommunication sector and determining the fees of the services
and facilities provided to Licensees and to whom such fees should be paid;

5.

issue, extend, revoke and suspend Licences pursuant to the provisions of this Federal
Law by Decree and its Executive Order;

6.

determine fees for Licences;

7.

determine the fees for the authorisations, consents and services secured or provided by
the Authority pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree or its Executive
Order; and

8.

any other authorities vested in it pursuant to this Federal Law by Decree.

The Supreme Committee may delegate some of its authorities to the Authority
Article (4)
The funds required to enable the Supreme Committee to meet its financial needs and obligations
shall be allocated in the general budget of the State.
*This article was amended by the Federal law by Decree no. (1) of 2005

7

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (5)
The Supreme Committee shall, by resolution, issue its internal rules regarding the conduct of its
business and the procedures for its meetings, the terms, conditions and remuneration for its
employees. The Supreme Committee shall not be subject to the control of the Audit Bureau
according to the law establishing such Bureau.

8

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 3
THE GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR REGULATING THE TELECOMMUNICATION SECTOR
Part 1 – Establishment of the Authority
Article (6)
It is hereby established an independent public authority, called the “General Authority for
Regulating the Telecommunication Sector” for the purpose of performing the functions and
implementing the duties given to it under this Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order.
Article (7)
The Authority shall have an independent legal personality and shall have full capacity to act
accordingly and to perform legal actions in accordance with this Federal Law by Decree, including
the capacity to enter into contracts of all types and to own and lease movable and immovable
assets of all types and the capacity to sue. The Authority shall have financial and administrative
independence in carrying out its affairs.
Article (8)
The headquarters of the Authority shall be in Abu Dhabi and it shall also have an office in Dubai.
The Board may establish other offices for the Authority within the State.
Article (9)
The Authority shall conduct its business in accordance with this Federal Law by Decree and its
Executive Order, and shall have the power to issue its financial and internal policies, contracting,
purchasing policies, and all personnel and disciplinary policies for the employees of the Authority
without the need to abide by the governmental laws, decisions, rules and regulations applicable in
this regard.
Article (10)
The Authority shall be managed by a board of directors, comprised of five Board Members,
including the Chairman and the Director General. The Board shall be appointed by resolution of
the Supreme Committee for a period of four years renewed for other similar periods pursuant to
the same appointing instrument.
Article (11)
Board Members cannot be removed from their positions before completing their period of
appointment except by a resolution of the Supreme Committee and because of any of the
following reasons: 1.

Conviction of dishonour or dishonesty related criminal offence or felony.

2.

Disciplinary reasons.

3.

Health incapacity which prevents that Board Member from carrying out his duties.

9

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Part 2 – Functions, Duties and Powers of the Authority
Article (12)
The Authority is the competent body to oversee the telecommunications sector in the State and
all Licensees in accordance with this Federal Law by Decree, its Executive Order and the
instructions of the Supreme Committee. The Authority may provide to the Supreme Committee
any necessary proposals in relation to the general policy of such sector and shall, at the end of
each financial year, submit to the Supreme Committee a report on its activities and business
performance during that year.
Article (13)
The Authority shall exercise its functions and powers under this Federal Law by Decree and its
Executive Order to:
1.

ensure that the Telecommunication Services provided throughout the State, are sufficient
to satisfy the public demands of those who wish to make use of such services;

2.

enhance the level of service provided by the telecommunication sector in order to promote
the interest of users;

3.

ensure that Licensees meet quality standards of performance and adhere to the terms and
conditions of the Licences granted to them;

4.

encourage, promote, and develop the telecommunications and information technology
industries in the State;

5.

promote and enhance the telecommunication system in the State as indicated by the
development and the establishment of industry related training institutions and through the
availability of the latest apparatus, equipment and facilities provided by
telecommunications technology.
Article (14)

Considering Articles (3) and (12) of this Federal Law by Decree the Authority shall have the power
to issue regulations, orders, resolutions and procedures in relation to:
1.

tariff, charges and fees levied by Licensees as determined by the Supreme Committee;

2.

the Interconnection of and access to Telecommunication Networks and
Telecommunication Services provided by the Licensees, and the co-location of assets and
sharing of infrastructure by such Licensees, including the terms, conditions and prices of
such Interconnection, access, co-location and sharing, the time-scales and rules for the
negotiation and finalisation between such operators of agreements in relation to the
foregoing matters and the dispute resolution policies between the parties to such
agreements;

3.

the terms and level of services provided by the Licensees to users, including the
standards and quality of service provided, the terms and conditions of supply of such
services, the handling and resolution of user complaints and disputes, the provision of
information to users, the use of user information and the rendering of bills to users;

10

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

4.

the specification of the equipment used by the Licensees including the technical standards
and types thereof;

5.

the importation, manufacture, dealing in, use and approval of Telecommunication
Apparatus;

6.

the allocation of telephone numbers, numbering plans and number portability;

7.

the radio spectrum which has been allocated to the telecommunication sector under this
Federal Law by Decree, including the allocation, re-allocation and use thereof;

8.

the terms of preparation and provision of directory services and directory enquiries
services;

9.

provisions to limit interference with telecommunications in the State by radio waves or
electrical or other means;

10.

training persons in installing, connecting, adjusting and maintaining Telecommunication
Apparatus;

11.

the publication and announcements of information relating to Telecommunication
Apparatus; and

12.

performing such other functions as the Supreme Committee may determine.

11

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Part 3 – Financial Affairs
Article (15)
The financial year of the Authority shall commence on the first day of January and end on the last
day of December of each year, except that the first financial year of the Authority shall commence
on the date this Federal Law by Decree comes into force and shall end on the last day of
December of the following year.
Article (16)
The Authority shall have an independent budget. In respect of the first financial year of the
Authority, the budget shall be set by resolution of the Supreme Committee. In respect of the
succeeding financial years of the Authority, the budget of the Authority shall be prepared by the
Director General, approved by the Board and submitted to the Supreme Committee for approval.
Article (17)
The financial resources of the Authority are derived from the following:
1.

any funds assigned to the Authority in the general budget of the State;

2.

such License fees as charged by the Supreme Committee pursuant to the provisions of
this Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order and the issued regulations
accordingly;

3.

such fees as may be charged by the Supreme Committee for any services provided by the
Authority or the authorizations or approvals granted by the Authority pursuant to the
provisions of this Federal Law by Decree, its Executive Order and the resolutions issued
by the Supreme Committee;

4.

any other revenues the Authority collects in pursuance of its activities and functions; and

5.

any other financial resources approved by the Supreme Committee.
Article (18)

The Authority shall collect the fees imposed by the Supreme Committee in relation to the
Licenses issued by the Supreme Committee and the authorizations approvals, services of the
Authority and any other amounts regarding radio spectrum.
Article (19)
Following the approval of the Supreme Committee, the Authority may raise loans from the
Government or raise loans from banks and other financial institutions (whether in the State or
elsewhere) and may create and issue debentures or bonds on such terms as determined by the
Board.
Article (20)
The funds of the Authority may invest its fund in the manner approved by the Board.
12

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (21)
The Authority and it’s dealings thereof shall be exempted from all Government fees and taxes.
Article (22)
The Authority shall be exempted from the prior control of the Audit Bureau as set out in Federal
Law No. (7) of 1976 Regarding the Establishment of the Audit Bureau as amended. The Audit
Bureau shall not interfere in the business of the Authority and the decisions of its Board or in the
policies determined by the Supreme Committee as applied by the Authority.
Article (23)
1.

The Board shall appoint an independent auditor, registered with the appropriate authorities
in the State, to audit the annual accounts of the Authority and prepare reports regarding
the results of the audit.

2.

As soon as the accounts of the Authority have been audited, a copy of the accounts
approved by the Board with a copy of the auditor’s report attached to it shall be forwarded
by the Authority to the Supreme Committee.

13

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER FOUR
RESTRUCTURING OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION SECTOR
Part 1 – Etisalat
Article (24)
The exclusive privilege of undertaking the transmission of wire and wireless communications,
their operation and maintenance and the development of a general communications system
within the State and between the State and foreign countries conferred on Etisalat by Article 4 of
Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 Regarding Emirates Telecommunications Corporation shall hereby
cease to exist but without prejudice to the fees payable for services and facilities provided by the
Government to Etisalat and which are payable to the Government pursuant to the provisions of
the regulations and decisions in force at the date this Federal Law by Decree is issued, the right
to impose and amend such fees shall transfer to Supreme Committee.
Article (25)
Subject to the provisions of any transitional provisions of this Federal Law by Decree, all functions
conferred on Etisalat by Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 Regarding Emirates Telecommunications
Corporation that conflict with the powers, competences and functions of the Supreme Committee
and the Authority under this Federal Law by Decree shall cease to be performed by Etisalat.
Article (26)

*The Ministry of Communications shall have responsibility for representing the Government as a
shareholder in Etisalat, and shall, accordingly have the power to exercise all rights in that regard.
Article (27)
Etisalat shall be required, within a period of ninety days of this Federal Law by Decree coming
into force, to take all such steps as shall be necessary to amend its Articles of Association and its
applicable rules and regulations to comply with the provisions contained in this Federal Law by
Decree and any regulations or decisions issued by the Supreme Committee.

*This article was amended by the Federal law by Decree no. (1) of 2005

14

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Part 2 – Licensees
Article (28)
The Supreme Committee shall, by resolution, determine the various types of Regulated Activities
for which Licences may be issued and the required terms for prospective Licensees.
In all cases no licence shall be issued to any entity unless such entity is a juridical entity
established pursuant to a resolution issued by the Supreme Committee. Such juridical entity may,
after obtaining the approval of the Supreme Committee, establish subsidiary companies to carry
out certain Regulated Activities.

Article (29)
With exception to acquiring the nationality of the State, the provisions of Federal Law No (8) of
1984 regarding Commercial Companies and the amending or replacement laws thereof shall not
apply to juridical Licensee licensed pursuant to this Federal Law by Decree and its Executive
Orders to the extent provided in their memoranda and articles of association as approved by the
Supreme Committee. The competent authorities shall be under an obligation to register such
juridical persons.
Article (30)
All Licensees shall take into account the special needs and requirements regarding the type of
service and Telecommunication Apparatus and ensure non-discrimination when providing such
services and apparatus.
Article (31)
It is not permitted to conduct any Regulated Activity unless authorised by a Licence or exempted
in accordance with the provision of this Federal Law by Decree or its Executive Order.
Article (32)
The Supreme Committee shall determine the form and substance of each Licence granted
pursuant to this Federal Law by Decree, and shall include conditions specifying the duration of
the Licence and may include conditions required by the Supreme Committee.
Article (33)
The application for a Licence must be submitted to the Authority in the form prescribed by the
Authority and must fulfil all the conditions set out by the Supreme Committee. The Authority shall
within a maximum period of thirty days from the date of submitting the application, review the
application and report its findings and recommendations thereto to the Supreme Committee.
Article (34)
The Supreme Committee shall have the authority to grant or refuse a Licence to an applicant.
The Supreme Committee’s decision in this regard shall be final and binding on the applicant and
may not be challenged or appealed in any way whatsoever.
15

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (35)
Obtaining a Licence pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree shall not operate to
relieve a person from any obligation to obtain any licences or authorisations that may be required
from any other Government Institution for purposes connected with the conduct of its business.

16

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Part 3 – Exemptions and Exclusions
Article (36)
The Supreme Committee may, if required, perform the following authorities:
1.

exempt any Licensee from the performance of the Licence conditions for such periods and
on such terms as specified in the exemption order;

2.

issue a general exemption from the performance of the Licence conditions in favour of
some, all or such classes of Licensees for such periods, and on such terms as specified in
the exemption order.

The Supreme Committee may revoke, amend or extend any specific exemption or general
exemption granted pursuant to this Article.
Article (37)
1.

No person (whether an individual or a juridical person) nor any Public Institution may
provide Telecommunication Services to clients or users through a Public
Telecommunication Network unless licensed by the Supreme Committee pursuant to the
provisions of this Federal Law by Decree. The establishment and operation of Private
Telecommunication Networks shall be regulated by the Executive Order and the decisions
issued by the Supreme Committee.

2.

In all cases, the persons covered by the above paragraph must comply with the terms,
conditions and requirements associated with the use of the frequencies allocated to them
pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree.

17

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 5
NETWORKS, APPARATUS AND NUMBERING
Part 1 - Network Interconnection and Sites Co-location
Article (38)
The Authority shall take any needed action as deemed necessary to facilitate the process of
Interconnection and to monitor the compliance of all parties to the provisions of the
Interconnection Agreements. The Authority shall have all the powers which will enable it to
achieve the foregoing.
Article (39)
1.

Where there is a dispute in relation to Interconnection the parties to the dispute may refer
the dispute to the Authority for adjudication and the issuance of binding resolutions.

2.

The Authority shall adjudicate disputes referred in accordance with this Article as specified
in the Executive Order.
Article (40)

1.

Where there is a dispute between a Licensee and another Licensee for co-location or the
sharing of facilities or sites either party may refer the dispute to the Authority for
adjudication. The Authority must adjudicate the dispute referred to it.

2.

The Authority shall make such investigations and request any information it deems
necessary to resolve the disputes referred in accordance with this Article.

3.

The adjudication may specify the steps to be taken by the parties in order to resolve the
dispute, determine the terms on which a Licensee shall offer the sharing of facilities, order
one or both parties to enter into a facility sharing agreement on terms specified in the
decision.

In all cases the Authority’s decision shall be final and binding.
Article (41)
Etisalat and any of its subsidiaries shall, at the direction of the Authority, satisfy in a timely,
efficient and least cost manner all requests from a Licensee for Interconnection, co-location or
sharing of sites and facilities at the best point as determined by the Authority. In particular
Etisalat shall:
1.

comply with any regulations, guidelines or licence conditions issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Federal Law by Decree or its Executive Order relating to Interconnection,
co-location or sharing of sites and facilities;

2.

subject to the regulations issued pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree
or its Executive Order, offer and provide Interconnection, co-location or sharing of sites
and facilities on terms and conditions (including as to cost and quality) which are in
accordance with best international practice;
18

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

3.

Facilitate, provide facilities and information concerning Interconnection, co-location and
sharing of sites to Licensees and their subsidiaries under the same conditions and of the
same quality as Etisalat provides for its own services or those of its subsidiaries or
companies.

19

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Part 2 – Telecommunication Apparatus Approval
Article (42)
The Authority shall be exclusively competent in issuing all authorisations and approvals in relation
to Telecommunication Apparatus comprised in or intended for use in connection with a
Telecommunication Network or in the provision of a Telecommunication Service in accordance
with the Executive Order issued pursuant to this Federal Law by Decree and the instructions of
the Supreme Committee to the Authority.
No person shall use, sell, offer for sale or connect to any Telecommunication Network any
Telecommunication Apparatus which has not been approved by the Authority.
Article (43)
Public Institutions shall be exempted from obtaining the approval of the Authority in respect of
Telecommunication Apparatus used or to be used by the Public Institutions.

Part 3 - Numbering
Article (44)
The Authority shall be responsible for allocating prefixes, private telephone numbers and
numbering ranges to Licensees in accordance with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree,
its Executive Order and the conditions set by the Authority and approved by Supreme Committee.

20

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 6
FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION
Article (45)
The Ministry of Communications shall ensure that sufficient and appropriate radio spectrum is
designated for use for the provision of Telecommunication Services to satisfy demand for such
services.
Article (46)
A committee called the “Co-ordination Committee” shall be established by resolution from the
Supreme Committee chaired by the Director General and representatives from the following
institutions:
1.

The Ministry of Communications;

2.

The Ministry of Information and Culture;

3.

The Ministry of the Interior;

4.

Armed Forces;

5.

The security and intelligence bodies in the State;

6.

The Civil Aviation Authority; and

7.

The Authority.

The Co-ordination Committee shall be responsible for putting in place a national frequency plan
for radio spectrum used in Telecommunication Services to be approved by the Supreme
Committee in order to ensure the efficient and proper use of radio spectrum without any
interference. The Ministry of Communications or the Authority may request the Co-ordination
Committee, from time to time, to review and amend the plan when the need arises.
Article (47)
The national frequency plan shall be drawn up in conformity with the international regulations
governing radio spectrum and the international or regional agreements concluded or acceded to
by the State. It shall include provisions for: 1.

the designation, on the recommendation of the Authority, of bands of radio spectrum for
the provision of Telecommunication Services over Telecommunication Networks;

2.

the amendment of allocations to existing users of radio spectrum to allow for the
development of new services; and

3.

the reassignment of radio spectrum on expiry of existing licences or authorisations relating
thereto.

21

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (48)
The Authority shall be responsible for allocation of radio spectrum designated for
Telecommunication Services. Any such allocation of radio spectrum shall be made in accordance
with the national frequency plan and on the basis of objective procedures and criteria, details of
which shall be set out in regulations issued by the Authority.
Article (49)
The Authority shall, within nine months of the date this Federal Law by Decree comes into force,
and after notifying the Ministry of Communications and the Co-ordination Committee, prepare and
publish a plan for the reallocation of radio spectrum currently authorised for use in the provision of
Telecommunication Services.
Article (50)
The establishment and use of Wireless Transmission stations and the installation and use of any
Wireless Transmission shall be prohibited unless permitted by a radio spectrum authorisation
issued by the Authority pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree, its Executive
Order or the regulations and instructions issued by the Authority.
Article (51)
On the issue or renewal by the Authority of a radio spectrum authorisation, there shall be paid to
the Authority by the entity to whom the authorisation is issued such sums as prescribed by the
provisions of this Federal Law by Decree, its Executive Order or the decisions, regulations or
instructions issued pursuant thereof.

22

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 7
OPERATION AND PROTECTION OF TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND LINES
Part 1 – Operation of Networks
Article (52)
Public Institutions shall, in accordance with their respective jurisdictions, grant all Licensees of
Public Telecommunication Networks, without payment, rights to occupy and use Public Land as
well as right of way and rights of access to Public Land so as to enable them to perform their
activities as set out in their respective Licences, including:
1.

the construction of buildings and other installations;

2.

the installation of equipment and apparatus;

3.

the establishment, extension, development and maintenance of Public Telecommunication
Networks including the laying and extension of ground and aerial cables and service lines.
Article (53)

The provisions of Article (52) of this Federal Law by Decree shall not apply to any Public Land
occupied by any of the Public Institutions to be determined by a resolution of the Supreme
Committee.
Article (54)
A Licensee licensed to operate a Public Telecommunication Network, may after obtaining the
approval of the Supreme Committee in co-ordination with the relevant competent authority,
remove or relocate a tree, group of trees or other vegetation if such tree, group of trees or
vegetation:
1.

obstructs the installation or maintenance of aerial wires by Licensees;

2.

materially interferes with or obstructs any signals required to be emitted or received by the
equipment or apparatus of a Licensee; or

3.

prevents or interferes with a Licensee establishing, maintaining, developing or operating a
Public Telecommunication Network,

provided that such removal or relocation is necessary to enter Public Land to carry out necessary
works.
Article (55)
Licensees operating Public Telecommunication Networks shall be exempted from all duties and
taxes applicable to Public Land and public ways which are required for any of the purposes
referred to in Article (52) of this Federal Law by Decree.

23

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (56)
The Supreme Committee may issue regulations authorising Licensees to enter to Private Land
and any buildings or premises thereon for any of the purposes referred to in Article (52) of this
Federal Law by Decree. The Executive Order shall prescribe the manner in which and/or the
terms on which they may do so.

Part 2 – Protection of Telecommunication Lines and Networks
Article (57)
Any person working close to service line routes, cables, wires, apparatus or equipment belonging
to any Licensee, shall take all precautions and arrangements to prevent causing the damage or
encroachment to the safety of these lines, cables, wires, apparatus or equipment.
Article (58)
If the completion of the works of any person or party necessitates cutting the route of any of the
service lines, wires, cables, apparatus or equipment of the Licensees or molest it in any way, the
person carrying out the work shall immediately report the same to the Licensee and the Authority.
It is prohibited to proceed with the work before the representative of the Licensee determines the
manner of completing the work without molesting the safety of such lines, wires, cables,
apparatus or equipment.
Article (59)
In addition to the penalties prescribed by this Federal Law by Decree or any other law, any
person that damages any service line, cable, wires, apparatus or equipment of a Licensee shall
be liable to pay the compensation prescribed by regulations issued by the Authority.

24

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 8
TRANSITIONAL PROVISION
Article (60)
The Supreme Committee may issue any company owned by Etisalat a temporary Licence for the
purpose of authorising any such company to continue conducting Regulated Activities conducted
by them at the date this Federal Law by Decree comes into force pending the issue of its formal
Licence pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order.
Article (61)
Etisalat may continue to use, for the purposes for which it is allocated and subject to the terms
and conditions of such allocation, such radio spectrum which is allocated for its use by the
Ministry of Communications until such time as the Authority reallocates any such radio spectrum
pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree and issues a frequency authorisation to
Etisalat.
Article (62)
Etisalat shall within a maximum period of ninety days from the date this Federal Law by Decree
comes into force provide to the Authority with:
1.

copies of all licences and special approvals relating to certain types of apparatus as
specified in such current licences, type approvals and permissions relating to
telecommunications equipment or other matters issued by Etisalat under Federal Law No.
(1) of 1991 Regarding Emirates Telecommunications Corporation;

2.

copies of all current resolutions and regulations containing technical standards
specifications for telecommunications equipment issued by Etisalat under the law referred
to in the previous paragraph; and

3.

such other information as shall be in the possession or control of Etisalat and as the
Authority shall require for the purposes of assessing the existing status of the
telecommunications sector in the State.
Article (63)

The Ministry of Communications shall, within a maximum period of ninety days from the date this
Federal Law by Decree comes into force, furnish to the Authority such information and documents
as the Authority shall request for the purposes of assessing the existing status of the
telecommunications sector in the State.
Article (64)
Etisalat shall, within a maximum period of ninety days from the date this Federal Law by Decree
comes into force, transfer to the Authority ownership of all books, records, registers, databases,
documents and other information which were owned or maintained by Etisalat in connection with
any function carried out by Etisalat which is now given to the Authority or Supreme Committee
25

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

under this Federal Law by Decree and, it shall be the duty of Etisalat to deliver all such books,
records, registers, databases, documents and other information which the Authority deems
necessary to enable it to carry out the powers prescribed to it pursuant to the provisions of this
Federal Law by Decree and its Executive Order. Etisalat may retain copies of any such items as
may be necessary to enable it to carry out certain functions as approved by the Authority in
accordance with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree.
Article (65)
1.

The Supreme Committee is authorised and empowered to issue necessary orders, to
transfer to the Authority from Etisalat, with effect from the date ordered by the Supreme
Committee, such assets and rights as the Supreme Committee considers necessary to
enable the Authority to carry out the functions determined by this Federal Law by Decree
which were carried out by Etisalat. This provision shall apply to Etisalat and third parties.

2.

Any such resolutions concerning the transfer effected thereby may include penalties for
failure to comply with the transfer and the decision of the Supreme Committee in this
regard shall be final and binding.
Article (66)

The Supreme Committee shall adjudicate in any matter arising out of the interpretation or
application of any of the provisions of Article 65 of this Federal Law by Decree.
Article (67)
All Public Institutions shall, on request, take all necessary steps to facilitate the transfer or the
registration of any assets or rights from Etisalat to the Authority pursuant to the instructions
issued by the Supreme Committee in accordance with Article (65) of this Federal Law by Decree.
Article (68)
The Supreme Committee may instruct Etisalat to perform some of the functions given to the
Authority under the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree for a period not more than one year
after this Federal Law by Decree comes into force. Etisalat shall keep proper records of, and
keep the Authority fully and promptly informed of all actions taken by Etisalat and, in particular,
shall provide to the Authority copies of all documents relating to such actions taken by Etisalat
when requested to do so by the Authority.
Article (69)
A determination or regulation concerning technical specifications or standards of
telecommunications equipment issued by Etisalat which is effective on the date this Federal Law
by Decree comes into force shall continue in force until such time as it expires or is invalidated,
revoked, cancelled or until the Authority takes any other decision it deems appropriate thereon.
Article (70)
1.

Any licence or permission granted or approved by Etisalat under Articles 4(f), 10(1) or
10(2) of Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 Regarding Emirates Telecommunications
Corporation or by the Ministry of Communications under Federal Law No. (7) of 1973
26

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Regarding wire and wireless Communications and Apparatus shall, to the extent that it is
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree, continue in force until
such licence shall expire or be replaced by a new licence, authorisation or permit issued
by the Authority pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree.
2.

The Authority shall have the power to determine as to whether such licence or permission
so granted or approved is compatible with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree.

27

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 9
PENALTIES
Article (71)
A person shall be punished with imprisonment of not more than two years and a fine of not less
than Dirhams 50,000 and not more than Dirhams 200,000, or either of these punishments if:
1.

he conducts any of the Regulated Activities without being licensed to do so or being
exempted from the necessity to obtain a licence pursuant to the provisions of this Federal
Law by Decree;

2.

he intentionally alters, destroys or otherwise suppresses a document or information
required by the Supreme Committee or the Authority pursuant to this Federal Law by
Decree;

3.

he does not amend his status pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree
within the period specified in Article 81.
Article (72)

A person shall be punished with imprisonment of not more than one year and a fine of not less
than Dirhams 50,000 and not more than Dirhams 200,000 or either of these punishments if he:
1.

provides or contributes to the provision of Telecommunication Services in violation of
public order or public morals;

2.

uses Telecommunication Services or Apparatus in a grossly offensive or nuisance manner
towards others or any other unlawful use;

3.

copies, discloses, or spreads the content of any communication through a Public
Telecommunication Network without having the right to do so;

4.

intentionally and unlawfully accesses a Telecommunication Network or obstructs any
Telecommunication Services;

5.

abuse or unlawfully use Telecommunication Services without authorisation or permission;

6.

intercepts the contents of telephone calls without prior permission by the competent
judicial authorities;

7.

violates the provisions of Article (50) of this Federal Law by Decree.

28

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (73)
A person shall be punished with imprisonment of not more than one year and a fine of not more
than Dirhams 200,000 or either of these punishments if he:1.

manufactures, uses, sells or offers for sale or use, to be connected to a Public
Telecommunication Network, any Telecommunication Apparatus which he knows has not
been approved in accordance with the provisions this Federal Law by Decree.

2.

intentionally contravenes Article 57 of this Federal Law by Decree and such violation
results in damage to lines, wires, cables, apparatus or equipment owned by or under the
management or disposal of a Licensee.
Article (74)

A person shall be punished with a fine of not less than Dirhams 50,000 and not more than
Dirhams 200,000 if he:
1.

manufactures, supplies or offers to supply Telecommunication Apparatus which does not
conform to any regulations or guidelines or instructions or decisions issued by the
Authority pursuant to the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree or its Executive Order.

2.

Refrains from submitting the Telecommunication Apparatus which is under his control for
testing and assessment in accordance with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree,
its Executive Order or the regulations, decisions and instructions issued pursuant thereto,
or if he prevents any official or authorised employee from entering his premises in
accordance with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree or its Executive Order.

3.

knowingly uses or employs any person who is unqualified for the installation, setting up,
connection, modification or maintenance of any Telecommunication Apparatus in
accordance with the rules issued by the Authority.

4.

presents a description or publishes an advertisement in respect of any Telecommunication
Apparatus in order to promote such apparatus in the course of any trade or business
which does not comply with the requirements imposed by the Authority.

5.

fails to comply with the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree or its Executive Order or
the regulations, decisions, instructions or rules issued pursuant thereto.
Article (75)

A Licensee may, after obtaining prior approval from the Authority, place an apparatus or any other
medium under surveillance if such Licensee had reasonable justifications to lead such Licensee
to believe that the apparatus is being used in performing any of the offences prescribed in Article
72 of this Federal Law by Decree.
Article (76)
An order shall be issued to seize the Telecommunication wire and wireless Apparatus and any
other equipment or apparatus used in contradiction of this Federal Law by Decree, its Executive

29

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Order, or the regulations, decisions, instructions or rules issued pursuant thereto. The court may,
when necessary, order the destruction of such apparatus and equipment.
Article (77)
Where a juridical person is guilty of an offence under this Chapter such juridical person shall be
punished with the fine specified for such offence under this Chapter.
Article (78)
The application of the punishments prescribed by this Federal Law by Decree shall not prejudice
a stricter punishment prescribed by any other law.
Article (79)
The punishment of the offences prescribed by this Federal Law by Decree shall be doubled if the
offence is repeated.

30

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

CHAPTER 10
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article (80)
Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 regarding the Emirates Telecommunications Corporation shall be
amended as set out hereunder subject to any relevant transitional provisions under this Federal
Law by Decree:
1.

Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 48 shall be
repealed.

2.

Article 1 shall be amended by deleting reference to, and definition of,

3.

(A)

“the Minister”;

(B)

“Communications Equipment”;

(C)

“the Schedule”; and

(D)

“Service Lines”.

Article 24 of Federal Law No. (1) of 1991 referred to shall be amended by inserting the
following sentence at the beginning of the said Article:
“subject to the regulations, instructions, decisions and policies issued by the General
Authority for Regulating the Telecommunication Sector”.

4.

The second paragraph of Article 41 of Federal Law No (1) of 1991 referred to shall be
amended as follows:
“The Articles of Association shall be issued pursuant to a resolution by the Council of
Ministers and the amendment of the Articles and the replacement thereof shall be
pursuant to a resolution issued by the Supreme Committee for the Supervision of the
Telecommunication Sector”.

5.

The provisions of Articles 4, 21, 25, 31, 33 and 47 of Federal Law No (1) of 1991 shall be
replaced with the following provisions:
Article 4
(1)

Etisalat shall undertake telecommunications services, operate, maintain and
develop the entire public telecommunications system in the State and also
between the State and the foreign countries in accordance with the provisions of
any laws relating to telecommunications and may exercise the powers to achieve
its objectives including:
(A)

to establish, maintain and operate local and international telegraphic,
telephonic, telex, leased circuits and data networks.

31

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

(B)

to establish, maintain and operate TV transmission excluding production and
broadcasting of programmes.

(C)

to administer, connect, hire and deal in telephonic services.

(D)

to plan, construct, and possess equipment and stations of transmitters and
receivers related to Etisalat’s activity.

(E)

to offer consultancy and training services in the field of wire and wireless
telecommunications.

(F)

to prepare, publish, distribute and promote the telephone directory,
commercial directory (yellow pages), bulletins, information and data and
other matters related to the telecommunications activity or the services
provided by Etisalat whether for the purpose of information, trade, publicity
or any other purposes.

(2)

Etisalat may without prejudice to its basic objects, invest, utilise and employ its
funds in any other commercial, financial or servicing fields which in the opinion of
the Board shall enhance such funds or reap profits to Etisalat in accordance with
the applicable rules in the State.

(3)

Etisalat may, for the purpose of achieving the objects provided for in this section:
(A)

conclude contracts and agreements,

(B)

establish companies, enter into or share in partnerships in accordance with
the applicable rules in the State.

Article (21)
The Board shall, pursuant to the regulations issued by the Telecommunication Regulatory
Authority, determine the charges for the services provided by Etisalat, controls and
conditions for provision of such services and the formula and forms of contracts to be
concluded with the beneficiaries.
Article (25)

*The administration of Etisalat shall be undertaken by a Board of Directors comprised of
eleven members, seven thereof including the Chairmanship shall represent the
Government and shall be appointed by a Federal Decree. The other members shall be
elected by the shareholders. Appointments and elections for Board Members might be for
more than one time pursuant to the articles of association.

*This article was amended by the Federal law by Decree no. (1) of 2005

32

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (31)
Each shareholder of Etisalat shall have the right to attend the General Meeting, discuss
the topics listed on the Agenda and question the members of the Board who shall be
bound to reply to the questions in so far as it shall not expose Etisalat’s interest for
damage. The shareholder may resort to the General Meeting if he considers the reply to
his questions as insufficient and the decision of the General Meeting shall be obligatory for
implementation.
The Government shall be represented in the General Meeting by the State’s Minister for
Finance and Industry.
Article (33)
Etisalat shall comply with the general policy of the Supreme Committee for the
Supervision of the Telecommunication Sector and obey any general or specific directives
issued by the Supreme Committee in this respect.
Article (47)
The Board shall issue the financial and administrative by-laws for management of Etisalat
and shall determine the staff’s conditions of service which do not conflict with the
decisions issued by the Supreme Committee for the Supervision of the
Telecommunication Sector.
Article (81)
All juridical persons existing at the time this Federal Law by Decree comes into force which carry
out any of the Regulated Activities must conform their status in accordance with the provisions of
this Federal Law by Decree within ninety days from date it comes into force. The Supreme
Committee may by resolution extend such period to other similar periods.
Article (82)
Any provision which contravenes any of the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree shall hereby
be repealed.
Article (83)
The Supreme Committee shall issue the Executive Order, regulations, resolutions and necessary
instructions to implement the provisions of this Federal Law by Decree.

33

Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003-Telecom Law

Article (84)
This Federal Law by Decree shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall become effective
on the date of such publication.

Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan
President of the State of the United Arab Emirates

Issued at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi:
Dated: 20 Ramadan 1424H
Corresponding to: 15/11/2003

34

