Federal Decree-Law no. (5) of 2012
Issued on 25 Ramadan 1433 AH
Corresponding to 13 August 2012 AD

ON COMBATING CYBERCRIMES
Abrogating:
Federal law no.2/2006 dated 3/1/2006 AD.
We, Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan
President of the United Arab Emirates State,
After perusal of the constitution, and
Federal Law no. (1) of 1972 on the Jurisdictions of the Ministries and the Powers of the Ministers and the
amending laws thereof, and
Federal Law no. (9) of 1976 on Delinquent and Homeless Juveniles, and
Federal Law no. (10) of 1980 on the Central Bank, the Monetary System and the Regulation of the Profession of
Bankers, and the amending laws thereof, and
Federal Law no. (15) of 1980 on Publications and Publishing, and
Federal Law no. (3) of 1987 on the Issuance of the Penal Code and the amending laws thereof, and
Federal Law no. (35) of 1992 on the Issuance of the Penal Procedures Code and the amending laws thereof, and
Federal Law no. (37) of 1992 on Trademarks and the amending laws thereof, and
Federal Law no. (14) of 1994 on Combating Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and the amending laws
thereof, and
Federal Law no. (4) of 2002 on Criminalizing Money Laundering, and
Federal Law no. (7) of 2002 on the Copyright and related rights and the amending laws thereof,
Federal Law no. (17) of 2002 on Regulation and Protection of Industrial Ownership patents, industrial drawings
and designs, and
Federal Decree-Law no. (3) of 2003 on Regulation of the Communication Sector and the amending Laws
thereof, and
Federal Decree-Law no. (1) of 2004 on Combating Terrorism Crimes, and
Federal Law no. (1) of 2006 on Electronic Transactions and Commerce, and
Federal Law no. (2) of 2006 on Combating Cybercrimes, and
Federal Law no. (51) of 2006 on Combating Human Trafficking, and
Federal Law no. (6) of 2008 on the Establishment of the National Council for Tourism and Archeology, and
Federal Law no. (3) of 2009 on Fire Weapons, Ammunitions and explosives, and
Federal Decree-Law no. (3) of 2012 on the Establishment of the National Electronic Security Authority, and
Upon the proposal of the Minister of Justice and the approval of the Council of Ministers,
Have promulgated the following Decree-Law:

Article 1
The following terms and phrases shall have the meanings assigned opposite to each of them unless the context
indicates otherwise:
The State:
Competent Authorities:
The Content:
Electronic Information:

The United Arab Emirates State.
Federal or local authorities concerned in the electronic security affairs in the State.
Information, data and electronic services.
Any information which may be stored, processed, generated and transmitted
through information technology means and in specific writings, images, sound,
digits, letters, symbols, signals and others.

Computer Program
Electronic Information System
Computer Network:
Electronic Document:
Website:
Information
means:

Technology

Government Data

Financial, Commercial,
Economical Facilities:
Electronic:
Pornography
Juveniles

involving

Internet Protocol address
Confidential
Reception:
Offense:

or

A set of data, instructions and orders which are enforceable through information
technology means designed for a certain task.
A set of computer programs and information technology means designed for
processing, managing and saving electronic information and the like.
Two or more computer programs and information technology means linked
together to enable users to access and exchange information.
A computer record or data to be established, stored, extracted, copied, sent,
notified or received by electronic means through a medium.
A place where the electronic information are made available on the computer
network, including social communication sites, personal pages and blogs.
Any tool, whether electronic, magnetic, optical, electrochemical or any other tool
which is used to process electronic data, perform logical and arithmetic operations
or storage functions, and includes any directly related to or operating in
conjunction with such means which enables such means to store electronic
information or communicate them to others.
Means electronic data or information whether private or relating to the federal
government or local governments of the Emirates of the State, or to federal or
local public authorities or public establishments.
Any facility which acquires its financial, commercial or economical description
pursuant to the license issued by the competent authority in the State.
Whatever is related to electromagnetic, photoelectric, digital, credit, or light
technology or the like.
Any photographing, recordings, drawings or others which arouses sex organs or
any actual, virtual or simulated sexual acts with a juvenile under eighteen years of
age.
A numerical label assigned to any information technology means participating in a
computer network which is used for communication purposes.
Any information or data unauthorized to be disclosed or made available to third
parties unless by a prior permission from the owner of this authorization.
Viewing or obtaining data or information.
Every deliberate expression against any person or entity deemed by an ordinary
person as insulting or afflicts the dignity or honor of that person or entity.

Article 2
1- Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than one hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
three hundred thousand Dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever gains access to a website, an electronic
information system, computer network or information technology means without authorization or in excess of
authorization or unlawfully remains therein.
2- The punishment shall be imprisonment for a period of at least six month and a fine not less than one hundred
and fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of seven hundred and fifty thousand dirhams or either of these two
penalties if any of the acts specified in paragraph (10) of this Article has resulted in deletion, omission, destruction,
disclosure, deterioration, alteration, copying, publication or re-publishing of any data or information.
3- The punishment shall be imprisonment for a period of at least one year and a fine not less than two hundred
and fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties if the data or
information objects of the acts mentioned in paragraph (2) of this Article are personal.

Article 3
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least one year and by a fine not less than two hundred and
fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever commits
any of the crimes specified in sections (1) and (2) of Article (2) of this Decree-Law in the course of or because of his
work.

Article 4
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not less than two hundred and fifty thousand dirhams
and not in excess of one million five hundred thousand dirhams whoever accesses a website, electronic information
system, computer network, or information technology means without authorization whether such access is intended
to obtain government data, or confidential information relating to a financial, commercial or economical facility.
The punishment shall be imprisonment for a period of at least five years and a fine not less than five hundred
thousand dirhams and not in excess of two million dirhams, if these data or information were deleted, omitted,
deteriorated, destructed, disclosed, altered, copied, published or re-published.

Article 5
Shall be punished by imprisonment and by a fine not less than one hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess
of three hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever gains access to a website without
authorization intending to change its designs, or delete, destroy or modify it, or occupy its address.

Article 6
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not less than one hundred and fifty thousand dirhams
and not in excess of seven hundred and fifty thousand dirham whoever commits forgery of any electronic document
of the federal or local government or authorities or federal or local public establishments.
The punishment shall be both imprisonment and a fine not less than one hundred thousand dirhams and not in
excess of three hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties if the forged documents belong to an
authority other than those mentioned in paragraph one of this Article.
Shall be punished by the same penalty decided for the crime of forgery, as the case may be, whoever uses this
forged electronic document with his knowledge that the document is forged.

Article 7
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment whoever obtains, possesses, modifies, destroys or discloses
without authorization the data of any electronic document or electronic information through the computer network, a
website, an electronic information system or information technology means where these data or information are
related to medical examinations, medical diagnosis, medical treatment or care or medical records.

Article 8
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than one hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
three hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever hinders or obstructs access to the computer
network or to a website or an electronic information system.

Article 9
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than one hundred and fifty thousand dirhams and not in
excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever uses a fraudulent computer
network protocol address by using a false address or a third-party address by any other means for the purpose of
committing a crime or preventing its discovery.

Article 10
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least five years and a fine not less than five hundred
thousand dirhams and not in excess of three million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever willfully and
without authorization runs a software on the computer network or an electronic information system or any
information technology means, and caused them to stop functioning or being impaired, or resulted in crashing,
deletion, omission, destruction or alteration of the program, system, website, data or information.
The punishment shall be imprisonment and a fine not in excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of
these two penalties if the result was not reached.

The punishment shall be imprisonment and a fine or either of these two penalties for any deliberate act which
intends to flood the electronic mail with messages causing it to stop functioning, inactivate it or destroy its contents.

Article 11
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least one year and a fine not less than two hundred and fifty
thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever takes over a
personal property, benefit, deed or its signature whether for oneself or for other persons and without legal right, by
resorting to any fraudulent method or by adopting a false name, or false personation through the computer network,
or an electronic information system or any information technology means.

Article 12
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine or either of these two penalties whoever gains access, without
legal right, to credit or electronic card numbers or data or to bank accounts numbers or data or any other electronic
payment method by using the computer network or an electronic information system or any information technology
means.
The punishment shall be imprisonment for a period of at least six months and a fine not less than one hundred
thousand dirhams and not in excess of three hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties, if it is
intended to use these data and numbers to take over the funds of others of to benefit from the services which they
provide.
If he has reached to take over the funds of others whether for himself or for others, he shall be punished by
imprisonment for a period of at least one year, and a fine not less than two hundred thousand dirhams and not in
excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties.
Shall be punished with the same penalty specified in the preceding paragraph, whoever publishes or re-publishes
credit or electronic card numbers or data or bank accounts numbers of data which belong to others or any other
electronic payment method.

Article 13
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
two million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever forges, counterfeits or reproduces a credit card or debit
card or any other electronic payment method by using any information technology means or computer program.
Shall be punished by the same penalty whoever:
1- Manufactures or designs any information technology means or computer program for the purpose of
facilitating any of the acts specified in paragraph 1 of this Article.
2- Uses, without authorization, a credit or electronic card or debit card or any other electronic payment method
aiming to obtain, whether for himself or for others, the funds or properties of others or benefit from the services
provided by third parties.
3- Accepts to deal with these forged, counterfeited, reproduced cards or other electronic payment method with
his knowledge of its illegality.

Article 14
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than two hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever obtains, without legal right, a secret number,
code, password or any other means to have access to an information technology means, website, electronic
information system, computer network or electronic information.
Shall be punished with the same penalty whoever prepares, designs, produces, sells, buys, imports, displays for
sale or make available any computer program or any information technology means, or promotes by any means links
to websites, computer program or any information technology means designed for the purposes of committing,
facilitating or abetting in the commission of the crimes specified in this Decree-Law.

Article 15

Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than one hundred fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess
of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever, without authorization, deliberately
receives or intercepts any communication through any computer network.
Whoever discloses the information which he has obtained through illegal reception or interception of
communications shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least one year.

Article 16
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of two years at most and a fine not less than two hundred fifty
thousand dirhams and not in excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever uses
a computer network or information technology means to extort or threaten another person to force him to engage in
or prevent him from engaging in a certain act.
The punishment shall be imprisonment up to ten years if the subject of threat is to commit a felony or engage in
matters against honor or morals.

Article 17
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than two hundred and fifty thousand dirhams and not in
excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes, manages or runs a
website or transmits, sends, publishes or re-publishes through the computer network pornographic materials or
gambling activities and whatever that may afflict the public morals.
Shall be punished by the same penalty whoever produces, draws up, prepares, sends or saves for exploitation,
distribution, or display to others through the computer network, pornographic materials or gambling activities and
whatever that may afflict the public morals.
If the subject of the pornographic content involves a juvenile under eighteen years of age, or if such content is
designed to seduce juveniles, the principal shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least one year and a
fine not less than fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of one hundred and fifty thousand dirhams.

Article 18
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least six months and a fine not less than one hundred fifty
thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams whoever has deliberately acquired pornographic
materials involving juveniles by using an electronic information system or computer network or electronic website
or any information technology means.

Article 19
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than two hundred fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess
of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever entices, aids or abets another person, by using a
computer network or any information technology means, to engage in prostitution or lewdness.
The punishment shall be imprisonment for a period of at least five years and a fine not in excess of one million
dirhams if the victim is a juvenile under the age of eighteen years of age.

Article 20
Without prejudice to the crime of slander determined by the Islamic Sharia, shall be punished by imprisonment
and a fine not less than two hundred fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or
either of these two penalties whoever insults or accuses another person of a matter of which he shall be subject to
punishment or being held in contempt by others, by using a computer network or an information technology means.
If a slander or insult is committed against a public official or servant in the course of or because of his work, this
shall be considered an aggravating factor of the crime.

Article 21
Shall be punished by imprisonment of a period of at least six months and a fine not less than one hundred and
fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever
uses a computer network or and electronic information system or any information technology means for the invasion
of privacy of another person in other than the cases allowed by the law and by any of the following ways:

1- Eavesdropping, interception, recording, transferring, transmitting or disclosure of conversations or
communications, or audio or visual materials.
2- Photographing others or creating, transferring, disclosing, copying or saving electronic photos.
3- Publishing news, electronic photos or photographs, scenes, comments, statements or information even if true
and correct.
Shall also be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least one year and a fine not less than two hundred and
fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever
uses an electronic information system or any information technology means for amending or processing a record,
photo or scene for the purpose of defamation of or offending another person or for attacking or invading his privacy.

Article 22
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least six months and a fine not less than five hundred
thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever uses, without
authorization, any computer network, website or information technology means to disclose confidential information
which he has obtained in the course of or because of his work.

Article 23
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not less than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in
excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes, administer or runs a website or
publishes information on a computer network or any information technology means for the purpose of trafficking in
humans or human organs or dealing in them illegally.

Article 24
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not less than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in
excess of one million dirhams whoever establishes or administer or runs a website or publishes on a computer
network or any information technology means which would promote or praise any programs or ideas which would
prompt riot, hatred, racism, sectarianism, or damage the national unity or social peace or prejudice the public order
and public morals.

Article 25
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least one year and a fine not less than five hundred
thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes,
manages or runs a website or publishes information on a computer network or any information technology means for
the purpose of trading or promoting fire weapons, ammunitions or explosives in instances other than those permitted
by the law.

Article 26
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of at least five years and a fine not less than one million dirhams
and not in excess of two million dirhams whoever establishes, manages or runs a website or publishes information
on the computer network or information technology means for the interest of a terrorist group or any unauthorized
group, association, organization, or body with the intent to facilitate communication with their leaders or members
or attract new members, or to promote or praise their ideas, finance their activities or provide actual assistance
thereof or for the purpose of publishing methods for manufacturing incendiary devices or explosives or any other
devices used in terrorism acts.

Article 27
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than two hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
five hundred thousand dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes, manages or runs a website or
publishes information on the computer network or any information technology means to call or promote for the
collection of donations without a license accredited by the competent authority.

Article 28

Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not in excess of one million dirhams whoever
establishes, manages or runs a website or uses information on the computer network or information technology
means with intent to incite acts or publishes or transmits information, news or cartoon drawings or any other pictures
which may endanger the national security and the higher interests of the State or afflicts its public order.

Article 29
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not in excess of one million dirhams whoever publishes
information, news, statements or rumors on a website or any computer network or information technology means
with intent to make sarcasm or damage the reputation, prestige or stature of the State or any of its institutions or its
president, vice-president, any of the rulers of the Emirates, their crown princes, or the deputy rulers of the Emirates,
the State flag, the national peace, its logo, national anthem or any of its symbols.

Article 30
Shall be punished by life imprisonment whoever establishes, manages or runs a website, or publishes information
on the Computer network or information technology means aiming or calling to overthrow, change the ruling system
of the State, or seize it or to disrupt the provisions of the constitution or the laws applicable in the country or to
oppose the basic principles which constitutes the foundations of the ruling system of the state.
Shall be punished by the same penalty whoever promotes to, incites or facilitates to others the commission of any
of the aforementioned acts.

Article 31
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than two hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever calls or incites to disobeying the laws and regulation in
force in the State through publishing information on the Computer network or information technology means.

Article 32
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of
one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes, manages or runs a website or uses the
Computer network or any information technology means for planning, organizing, promoting or calling for
demonstrations or protests or the like without license from the competent authority.

Article 33
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of one
million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes, manages or runs a website or uses the
Computer network or information technology means for trafficking in antiquities or archeological artifacts in
instances other than those permitted by the law.

Article 34
Shall be punished by imprisonment of at least of one year and a fine not less than two hundred fifty thousand
dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever uses communication
services, audio or video broadcasting channels without legal right or facilitates such use by others over the
Computer network or information technology means.

Article 35
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Islamic Sharia, shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine not less
than two hundred fifty thousand dirhams and not in excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties
whoever commits through the computer network or any information technology means or a website any of the
following crimes:
1- Insult to any of the Islamic sanctities or rituals.
2- Insult to any of the sanctities or rituals of other religions where these sanctities and rituals are inviolable
pursuant to the provisions of Islamic Sharia.
3- Insult to any of the recognized celestial religions.

4- Condoning, provoking or promoting sin.
If the crime contains any insult to the Divinity (Allah, God) or to the messengers and prophets or be against the
religion of Islam or injures its basis and principles which constitute its foundation, or whoever oppose or injures the
well-known teachings and rituals of Islamic religion or prejudices the religion of Islam or preaching another religion
or calls for, praises or promotes a doctrine or a notion which involves any of the aforementioned shall be punished
by imprisonment up to seven years.

Article 36
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine not less than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in
excess of one million dirhams or either of these two penalties whoever establishes, manages or runs a website or
publishes information on the computer network or any information technology means for trafficking in or promoting
narcotics or psychotropic substances and the like or the manner for their use or facilitates such dealing in instances
other than those permitted by the law.

Article 37
Without prejudice to the provisions specified in the Money Laundering Law, shall be punished by imprisonment
up to seven years and by a fine not less than five hundred thousand dirhams and not in excess of two million
dirhams whoever deliberately commits, by using a computer network, an electronic information system or any
information technology means, any of the acts mentioned hereinafter:
1- Illegal transfer, transport or deposit of funds with intent to conceal or disguise the source of funds.
2- Concealing or disguising the nature of the illicit funds, or its origin, movement, related rights or ownership.
3- Illegal attainment, possession or use of funds with the knowledge of its illegal origin.
Shall be punished by the same punishment whoever establishes, manages or runs a website or publishes
information on a computer network or information technology means to facilitate or incites the commission of any
of the acts specified in paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 38
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment whoever provides any organizations, institutions, authorities or
any other entities through the computer network or any information technology means any incorrect, inaccurate or
misleading information which may damage the interests of the State or injures its reputation, prestige or stature.

Article 39
Shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine or any of these two penalties any owner or operator of a website or
computer network who deliberately and knowingly saves or makes available any illicit content or if he fails to
remove or blocks access to this illicit content within the period determined in the written notice addressed by the
competent authorities indicating the illegal content and being available on the website or the computer network.

Article 40
Attempted misdemeanors specified in this Decree-Law shall be punished with half the penalty specified for the
complete crime.

Article 41
Without prejudice to the right of bona fide third-party, shall be ordered, in all instances, the confiscation of
devices, programs or means used in the commission of any of the crimes specified in this Decree-Law or the money
accrued thereof, or deletion of the information and statements or their killing, as to the closure of the domain or site
in which any of these crimes is committed whether permanent closure or for a specified period as determined by
court.

Article 42
The court may decide deportation of a foreigner who is condemned in any of the crimes specified in this DecreeLaw upon execution of the punishment adjudged.

Article 43
Without prejudice to the provisions of the penalties specified in this Decree-Law, the court may order to put the
condemned under surveillance or control or orders his deprivation from the right to use any computer network or
electronic information system or any other information technology means or place him in a rehabilitation center for
a period which the court may deem appropriate.

Article 44
The crimes mentioned in Articles (4, 24, 26, 28, 29, 30 and 38) of this Decree-Law shall be considered as crimes
against the State security.
Shall also be deemed as crimes against State security any crime specified in this Decree-Law if committed to the
account or benefit of a foreign country or any terrorist group or illegal group, association, organization or body.

Article 45
Mitigation of or exemption from punishment may be ordered by the court, at the request of the public prosecutor,
regarding criminals who have provided the judicial or administrative authorities with information in respect of any
of the crimes relating to the State security pursuant to the provisions of this Decree-Law, where such a matter has
resulted in the discovery of the crime, or proving the case against them or arresting any of them.

Article 46
The use of the computer network, the Internet, any electronic information system, a website or any information
technology means shall be considered an aggravating factor when committing any crime not specified by the present
Decree-Law.
Shall also be considered as an aggravating factor the commission of a crime specified in this Decree-Law to the
account or benefit of a foreign country or any terrorist group, or illegal group, association, organization or body.

Article 47
Without prejudice to the provisions of chapter two of part two of book one of the Penal Code, the provisions of
this Decree-Law shall apply to any person who has committed any of the crimes mentioned therein outside the
country, if its object is an electronic information system, computer network, website or information technology
means relates to the federal government or any of the local governments of the Emirates of the State or any authority
or public institution owned by any of them.

Article 48
The application of the penalties specified in this Decree-Law shall not prejudice any other greater penalty
specified by the Penal Code or any other law.

Article 49
The officials determined by a decision from the Minister of Justice shall have the capacity of judicial officers for
the ascertainment of acts committed in violation to the provisions of this Decree-Law, and the competent authorities
in the Emirates are required to submit facilities necessary to those officials to enable them to perform their tasks.

Article 50
Federal Law no. (2) of 2006 on Combatting Cybercrimes shall be abrogated, and shall also be abrogated any
provision contrary to or contradicting with the provisions of this Decree-Law.

Article 51
This Decree-Law shall be published in the official gazette and be put into effect on the next day of publication.
Issued by Us, at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi
On 25 Ramadan 1433 AH
Corresponding to 13/08/2012 AD

Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan

President of the United Arab Emirates State
The present Federal Decree-Law was published in the Official Gazette, issue no. 540 (Addendum), p. 19.

