100 STAT. 1848

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

Public Law 99-508
99th Congress
An Act
Oct. 21, 1986
[H.R. 4952]

To amend title 18, United States Code, with respect to the interception of certain
communications, other forms of surveillance, and for other purposes.

Electronic
Communications
Privacy Act of
1986.
18 USC 2510
note.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the "Electronic Communications Privacy
Act of 1986".
TITLE I—INTERCEPTION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND
RELATED MATTERS
SEC. 101. FEDERAL PENALTIES FOR THE INTERCEPTION OF COMMUNICA­
TIONS.

(a) DEFINITIONS.—(1) Section 2510(1) of title 18, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) by striking out "any communication" and inserting "any
aural transfer" in lieu thereof;
(B) by inserting "(including the use of such connection in a
switching station)" after "reception".
(C) by striking out "as a common carrier" and
(D) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:
"or communications affecting interstate or foreign commerce
and such term includes any electronic storage of such commu­
nication, but such term does not include the radio portion of a
cordless telephone communication that is transmitted between
the cordless telephone handset and the base unit".
(2) Section 2510(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: ", but such
term does not include any electronic communication".
(3) Section 2510(4) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting "or other" after "aural"; and
(B) by inserting ", electronic," after "wire".
(4) Section 2510(5) of title 18, United States Code, is amended in
clause (a)(i) by inserting before the semicolon the following: "or
furnished by such subscriber or user for connection to the facilities
of such service and used in the ordinary course of its business".
(5) Section 2510(8) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking out "identity of the parties to such communication or the
existence,".
(6) Section 2510 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking out "and" at the end of paragraph (10);
(B) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (11) and
inserting a semicolon in lieu thereof; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
"(12) 'electronic communication' means any transfer of signs,
signals, writing, images, sounds, data, or intelligence of any

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1849

nature transmitted in whole or in part by a wire, radio, electro­
magnetic, photoelectronic or photooptical system that affects
interstate or foreign commerce, but does not include—
"(A) the radio portion of a cordless telephone communica­
tion that is transmitted between the cordless telephone
handset and the base unit;
"(B) any wire or oral communication;
"(C) any communication made through a tone-only
paging device; or
"(D) any communication from a tracking device (as de­
fined in section 3117 of this title);
18 USC 3117.
"(13) 'user' means any person or entity who—
"(A) uses an electronic communication service; and
"(B) is duly authorized by the provider of such service to
engage in such use;
"(14) 'electronic communications system' means any wire,
radio, electromagnetic, photooptical or photoelectronic facilities
for the transmission of electronic communications, and any
computer facilities or related electronic equipment for the elec­
tronic storage of such communications;
"(15) 'electronic communication service' means any service
which provides to users thereof the ability to send or receive
wire or electronic communications;
"(16) 'readily accessible to the general public' means, with
respect to a radio communication, that such communication is
not—
"(A) scrambled or encrypted;
"(B) transmitted using modulation techniques whose
essential parameters have been withheld from the public
with the intention of preserving the privacy of such commu­
nication;
"(C) carried on a subcarrier or other signal subsidiary to a
radio transmission;
"(D) transmitted over a communication system provided
by a common carrier, unless the communication is a tone
only paging system communication; or
"(E) transmitted on frequencies allocated under part 25,
subpart D, E, or F of part 74, or part 94 of the Rules of the
Federal Communications Commission, unless, in the case of
a communication transmitted on a frequency allocated
under part 74 that is not exclusively allocated to broadcast
auxiliary services, the communication is a two-way voice
communication by radio;
"(17) 'electronic storage' means—
"(A) any temporary, intermediate storage of a wire or
electronic communication incidental to the electronic trans­
mission thereof; and
"(B) any storage of such communication by an electronic
communication service for purposes of backup protection of
such communication; and
"(18) 'aural transfer' means a transfer containing the human
voice at any point between and including the point of origin and
the point of reception.".
(b) EXCEPTIONS W I T H RESPECT TO ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS.—

(1) Section 2511(2)(a)(ii) of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—

100 STAT. 1850

Post, p. 1860.

47 USC 553.
47USC605.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

(A) by striking out "violation of this subparagraph by a
communication common carrier or an officer, employee, or
agent thereof" and inserting in lieu thereof "such disclo­
sure";
(B) by striking out "the carrier" and inserting in lieu
thereof "such person"; and
(G) by striking out "an order or certification under this
subparagraph" and inserting in lieu thereof "a court order
or certification under this chapter".
(2) Section 2511(2)(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking out "or for the purpose of committing any other injurious
act".
(3) Section 2511(2)(f) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting "or chapter 121" after "this chapter"; and
(B) by striking out "by" the second place it appears and
inserting in lieu thereof ", or foreign intelligence activities
conducted in accordance with otherwise applicable Federal
law involving a foreign electronic communications system,
utilizing".
(4) Section 2511(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
"(g) It shall not be unlawful under this chapter or chapter 121 of
this title for any person—
"(i) to intercept or access an electronic communication made
through an electronic communication system that is configured
so that such electronic communication is readily accessible to
the general public;
"(ii) to intercept any radio communication which is
transmitted—
"(I) by any station for the use of the general public,
or that relates to ships, aircraft, vehicles, or persons in
distress;
"(II) by any governmental, law enforcement, civil defense,
private land mobile, or public safety communications
system, including police and fire, readily accessible to the
general public;
"(III) by a station operating on an authorized frequency
within the bands allocated to the amateur, citizens band, or
general mobile radio services; or
"(IV) by any marine or aeronautical communications
system;
"(iii) to engage in any conduct which—
"(I) is prohibited by section 633 of the Communications
Act of 1934; or
"(II) is excepted from the application of section 705(a) of
the Communications Act of 1934 by section 705(b) of that
Act;
"(iv) to intercept any wire or electronic communication the
transmission of which is causing harmful interference to any
lawfully operating station or consumer electronic equipment,
to the extent necessary to identify the source of such inter­
ference; or
"(v) for other users of the same frequency to intercept any
radio communication made through a system that utilizes fre­
quencies monitored by individuals engaged in the provision or
the use of such system, if such communication is not scrambled
or encrypted.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1851

"(h) It shall not be unlawful under this chapter—
(i) to use a pen register or a trap and trace device (as those
terms are defined for the purposes of chapter 206 (relating to Post, p. 1868.
pen registers and trap and trace devices) of this title); or
"(ii) for a provider of electronic communication service to
record the fact that a wire or electronic communication was
initiated or completed in order to protect such provider, another
provider furnishing service toward the completion of the wire or
electronic communication, or a user of that service, from
fraudulent, unlawful or abusive use of such service.".
(c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—(1) Chapter 119 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended—
18 USC 2510 et
(A) in each of sections 2510(5), 2510(8), 2510(9)(b), 2510(11), and seq.
2511 through 2519 (except sections 2515, 2516(1) and 2518(10)),
by striking out "wire or oral" each place it appears (including in
any section heading) and inserting "wire, oral, or electronic" in
lieu thereof; and
(B) in section 2511(2)(b), by inserting "or electronic" after
"wire".
(2) The heading of chapter 119 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by inserting "and electronic communications" after
"wire".
(3) The item relating to chapter 119 in the table of chapters at the
beginning of part I of title 18 of the United States Code is amended
by inserting "and electronic communications" after "Wire".
(4) Section 2510(5)(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking out "communications common carrier" and inserting "pro­
vider of wire or electronic communication service" in lieu thereof.
(5) Section 2511(2)(a)(i) of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) by striking out "any communication common carrier" and
inserting "a provider of wire or electronic communication serv­
ice" in lieu thereof;
(B) by striking out "of the carrier of such communication"
and inserting "of the provider of that service" in lieu thereof;
and
(C) by striking out ": Provided, That said communication
common carriers" and inserting ", except that a provider of
wire communication service to the public" in lieu thereof.
(6) Section 2511(2)(a)(ii) of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) by striking out "communication common carriers" and
inserting "providers of wire or electronic communication serv­
ice" in lieu thereof;
(B) by striking out "communication common carrier" each
place it appears and inserting "provider of wire or electronic
communication service" in lieu thereof; and
(C) by striking out "if the common carrier" and inserting "if
such provider" in lieu thereof.
(7) Section 2512(2)(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking out "a communications common carrier" the
first place it appears and inserting "a provider of wire or
electronic communication service" in lieu thereof; and
(B) by striking out "a communications common carrier" the
second place it appears and inserting "such a provider" in lieu
thereof; and

100 STAT. 1852

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

(C) by striking out "communications common carrier's busi­
ness" and inserting "business of providing that wire or elec­
tronic communication service" in lieu thereof.
(8) Section 2518(4) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking out "communication common carrier" in both
places it appears and inserting "provider of wire or electronic
communication service" in lieu thereof; and
(B) by striking out "carrier" and inserting in lieu thereof
"service provider".
(d) PENALTIES MODIFICATION.—(1) Section 2511(1) of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by striking out "shall be" and all
that follows through "or both" and inserting in lieu thereof "shall
be punished as provided in subsection (4) or shall be subject to suit
as provided in subsection (5)".
(2) Section 2511 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding after the material added by section 102 the following:
"(4)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection or in
subsection (5), whoever violates subsection (1) of this section shall be
fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or
both.
"(b) If the offense is a first offense under paragraph (a) of this
subsection and is not for a tortious or illegal purpose or for purposes
of direct or indirect commercial advantage or private commercial
gain, and the wire or electronic communication with respect to
which the offense under paragraph (a) is a radio communication
that is not scrambled or encrypted, then—
"(i) if the communication is not the radio portion of a cellular
telephone communication, a public land mobile radio service
communication or a paging service communication, and the
conduct is not that described in subsection (5), the offender shall
be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year,
or both; and
"(ii) if the communication is the radio portion of a cellular
telephone communication, a public land mobile radio service
communication or a paging service communication, the offender
shall be fined not more than $500.
"(c) Conduct otherwise an offense under this subsection that
consists of or relates to the interception of a satellite transmission
that is not encrypted or scrambled and that is transmitted—
"(i) to a broadcasting station for purposes of retransmission to
the general public; or
"(ii) as an audio subcarrier intended for redistribution to
facilities open to the public, but not including data trans­
missions or telephone calls,
is not an offense under this subsection unless the conduct is for the
purposes of direct or indirect commercial advantage or private
financial gain.
"(5)(a)(i) If the communication is—
"(A) a private satellite video communication that is not
scrambled or encrypted and the conduct in violation of this
chapter is the private viewing of that communication and is not
for a tortious or illegal purpose or for purposes of direct or
indirect commercial advantage or private commercial gain; or
"(B) a radio communication that is transmitted on frequencies
allocated under subpart D of part 74 of the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission that is not scrambled or
encrypted and the conduct in violation of this chapter is not for

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1853

a tortious or illegal purpose or for purposes of direct or indirect
commercial advantage or private commercial gain,
then the person who engages in such conduct shall be subject to suit
by the Federal Government in a court of competent jurisdiction.
"(ii) In an action under this subsection—
"(A) if the violation of this chapter is a first offense for the
person under paragraph (a) of subsection (4) and such person
has not been found liable in a civil action under section 2520 of
this title, the Federal Government shall be entitled to appropriate injunctive relief; and
"(B) if the violation of this chapter is a second or subsequent
offense under paragraph (a) of subsection (4) or such person has
been found liable in any prior civil action under section 2520,
the person shall be subject to a mandatory $500 civil fine.
"(b) The court may use any means within its authority to enforce
an injunction issued under paragraph (ii)(A), and shall impose a civil
fine of not less than $500 for each violation of such an injunction.".
(e)

EXCLUSIVITY OF REMEDIES WITH RESPECT TO ELECTRONIC

COMMUNICATIONS.—Section 2518(10) of title 18, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the following:
"(c) The remedies and sanctions described in this chapter with
respect to the interception of electronic communications are the
only judicial remedies and sanctions for nonconstitutional violations
of this chapter involving such communications.".
(f) STATE OF MIND.—Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of subsection (1)
of section 2511 of title 18, United States Code, are amended by
striking out "willfully" and inserting in lieu thereof "intentionally".
(2) Subsection (1) of section 2512 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended in the matter before paragraph (a) by striking out "will­
fully" and inserting in lieu thereof "intentionally".
SEC. 102. REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN DISCLOSURES.

Section 2511 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
"(3)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, a
person or entity providing an electronic communication service to
the public shall not intentionally divulge the contents of any
communication (other than one to such person or entity, or an agent
thereof) while in transmission on that service to any person or
entity other than an addressee or intended recipient of such commu­
nication or an agent of such addressee or intended recipient.
"(b) A person or entity providing electronic communication
service to the public may divulge the contents of any such
communication—
"(i) as otherwise authorized in section 2511(2)(a) or 2517 of this
title;
"(ii) with the lawful consent of the originator or any addressee
or intended recipient of such communication;
"(iii) to a person employed or authorized, or whose facilities
are used, to forward such communication to its destination; or
"(iv) which were inadvertently obtained by the service pro­
vider and which appear to pertain to the commission of a crime,
if such divulgence is made to a law enforcement agency."
SEC. 103. RECOVERY OF CIVIL DAMAGES.

Section 2520 of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:

Infra.

100 STAT. 1854

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

"§ 2520. Recovery of civil damages authorized
"(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in section 2511(2)(a)(ii), any
person whose wire, oral, or electronic communication is intercepted,
disclosed, or intentionally used in violation of this chapter may in a
civil action recover from the person or entity which engaged in that
violation such relief as may be appropriate.
"(b) RELIEF.—In an action under this section, appropriate relief
includes—
"(1) such preliminary and other equitable or declaratory relief
as may be appropriate;
"(2) damages under subsection (c) and punitive damages in
appropriate cases; and
"(3) a reasonable attorney's fee and other litigation costs
reasonably incurred.
"(c) COMPUTATION OF DAMAGES.—(1) In an action under this sec­
tion, if the conduct in violation of this chapter is the private viewing
of a private satellite video communication that is not scrambled or
encrypted or if the communication is a radio communication that is
transmitted on frequencies allocated under subpart D of part 74 of
the rules of the Federal Communications Commission that is not
scrambled or encrypted and the conduct is not for a tortious or
illegal purpose or for purposes of direct or indirect commercial
advantage or private commercial gain, then the court shall assess
damages as follows:
"(A) If the person who engaged in that conduct has not
previously been enjoined under section 2511(5) and has not been
found liable in a prior civil action under this section, the court
shall assess the greater of the sum of actual damages suffered
by the plaintiff, or statutory damages of not less than $50 and
not more than $500.
"(B) If, on one prior occasion, the person who engaged in that
conduct has been enjoined under section 2511(5) or has been
found liable in a civil action under this section, the court shall
assess the greater of the sum of actual damages suffered by the
plaintiff, or statutory damages of not less than $100 and not
more than $1000.
"(2) In any other action under this section, the court may assess as
damages whichever is the greater of—
"(A) the sum of the actual damages suffered by the plaintiff
and any profits made by the violator as a result of the violation;
or
"(B) statutory damages of whichever is the greater of $100 a
day for each day of violation or $10,000.
"(d) DEFENSE.—A good faith reliance on—
"(1) a court warrant or order, a grand jury subpoena, a
legislative authorization, or a statutory authorization;
"(2) a request of an investigative or law enforcement officer
under section 2518(7) of this title; or
"(3) a good faith determination that section 2511(3) of this
title permitted the conduct complained of;
is a complete defense against any civil or criminal action brought
under this chapter or any other law.
"(e) LIMITATION.—A civil action under this section may not be
commenced later than two years after the date upon which
the claimant first has a reasonable opportunity to discover the
violation."

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1855

SEC. 104. CERTAIN APPROVALS BY JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.

Section 2516(1) of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by
striking out "or any Assistant Attorney General" and inserting in
lieu thereof "any Assistant Attorney General, any acting Assistant
Attorney General, or any Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the
Criminal Division".
SEC. 105. ADDITION OF OFFENSES TO CRIMES FOR WHICH INTERCEPTION
IS AUTHORIZED.

(a) WIRE AND ORAL INTERCEPTIONS.—Section 2516(1) of title 18 of

the United States Code is amended—
(1) in paragraph (c)—
(A) by inserting "section 751 (relating to escape)," after
"wagering information),";
(B) by striking out "2314" and inserting "2312, 2313,
2314," in lieu thereof;
(C) by inserting "the second section 2320 (relating to Motor vehicles.
trafficking in certain motor vehicles or motor vehicle Aircraft and
parts), section 1203 (relating to hostage taking), section 1029 air carriers.
(relating to fraud and related activity in connection with
access devices), section 3146 (relating to penalty for failure
to appear), section 3521(b)(3) (relating to witness relocation
and assistance), section 32 (relating to destruction of air­
craft or aircraft facilities)," after "stolen property),";
(D) by inserting "section 1952A (relating to use of inter­
state commerce facilities in the commission of murder for
hire), section 1952B (relating to violent crimes in aid of
racketeering activity)," after "1952 (interstate and
foreign travel or transportation in aid of racketeering
enterprises),";
(E) by inserting ", section 115 (relating to threatening or Energy.
retaliating against a Federal official), the section in chapter Mail.
65 relating to destruction of an energy facility, and section Fraud.
1341 (relating to mail fraud)," after "section 1963 (violations
with respect to racketeer influenced and corrupt organiza­
tions)"; and
(F)by—
Hazardous
(i) striking out "or" before "section 351" and insert­ materials.
Motor vehicles.
ing in lieu thereof a comma; and
(ii) inserting before the semicolon at the end thereof
the following: ", section 831 (relating to prohibited
transactions involving nuclear materials), section 33
(relating to destruction of motor vehicles or motor
vehicle facilities), or section 1992 (relating to wrecking
trains)";
(2) by striking out "or" at the end of paragraph (g);
(3) by inserting after paragraph (g) the following:
"(h) any felony violation of sections 2511 and 2512 (relating to
interception and disclosure of certain communications and to cer­
tain intercepting devices) of this title;
"(i) any violation of section 1679a(c)(2) (relating to destruction of a Natural gas.
natural gas pipeline) or subsection (i) or (n) of section 1472 (relating Aircraft and air
carriers.
to aircraft piracy) of title 49, of the United States Code;
"(j) any criminal violation of section 2778 of title 22 (relating to
the Arms Export Control Act); or";
22 USC 2751
"(k) the location of any fugitive from justice from an offense note.
described in this section;

100 STAT. 1856

Hazardous
materials.

18 USC 1361 et
seq.
18 USC 2271 et
seq.

Maritime
affairs.
18
USC 1651 et
seq.
18 USC app.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

(4) by redesignating paragraph (h) as paragraph (1); and
(5) in paragraph (a) by—
(A) inserting after "Atomic Energy Act of 1954)," the
following: "section 2284 of title 42 of the United States Code
(relating to sabotage of nuclear facilities or fuel),";
(B) striking out "or" after "(relating to treason),"; and
(C) inserting before the semicolon at the end thereof the
following: "chapter 65 (relating to malicious mischief),
chapter 111 (relating to destruction of vessels), or chapter
81 (relating to piracy)".
(b) INTERCEPTION OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS.—Section 2516
of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by adding a t the end
the following:
"(3) Any attorney for the Government (as such term is defined for
the purposes of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure) may
authorize an application to a Federal judge of competent jurisdiction
for, and such judge may grant, in conformity with section 2518 of
this title, an order authorizing or approving the interception of
electronic communications by an investigative or law enforcement
officer having responsibility for the investigation of the offense as to
which the application is made, when such interception may provide
or has provided evidence of any Federal felony."
SEC. 106. APPLICATIONS, ORDERS, AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDERS.

(a) PLACE OF AUTHORIZED INTERCEPTION.—Section 2518(3) of title
18 of the United States Code is amended by inserting "(and outside
that jurisdiction but within the United States in the case of a mobile
interception device authorized by a Federal court within such juris­
diction)" after "within the territorial jurisdiction of the court in
which the judge is sitting".
(b) REIMBURSEMENT FOR ASSISTANCE.—Section 2518(4) of title 18 of
the United States Code is amended by striking out "at the prevail­
ing rates" and inserting in lieu thereof "for reasonable expenses
incurred in providing such facilities or assistance".
(c) COMMENCEMENT OF THIRTY-DAY PERIOD AND POSTPONEMENT OF

MINIMIZATION.—Section 2518(5) of title 18 of the United States Code
is amended—
(1) by inserting after the first sentence the following: "Such
thirty-day period begins on the earlier of the day on which the
investigative or law enforcement officer first begins to conduct
an interception under the order or ten days after the order is
entered."; and
(2) by adding at the end the following: "In the event the
intercepted communication is in a code or foreign language, and
an expert in that foreign language or code is not reasonably
available during the interception period, minimization may be
accomplished as soon as practicable after such interception. An
interception under this chapter may be conducted in whole or in
part by Government personnel, or by an individual operating
under a contract with the Government, acting under the super­
vision of an investigative or law enforcement officer authorized
to conduct the interception."
(d) ALTERNATIVE TO DESIGNATING SPECIFIC FACILITIES FROM WHICH

COMMUNICATIONS ARE TO BE INTERCEPTED.—(1) Section 2518(l)(b)(ii)

of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by inserting "except
as provided in subsection (11)," before "a particular description".

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1857

(2) Section 2518(3)(d) of title 18 of the United States Code is
amended by inserting "except as provided in subsection (11)," before
"there is".
(3) Section 2518 of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by
adding at the end the following:
"(11) The requirements of subsections (1)(b)(ii) and (3)(d) of this
section relating to the specification of the facilities from which, or
the place where, the communication is to be intercepted do not
apply if—
"(a) in the case of an application with respect to the intercep­
tion of an oral communication—
"(i) the application is by a Federal investigative or law
enforcement officer and is approved by the Attorney Gen­
eral, the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney
General, an Assistant Attorney General, or an acting
Assistant Attorney General;
"(ii) the application contains a full and complete state­
ment as to why such specification is not practical and
identifies the person committing the offense and whose
communications are to be intercepted; and
"(iii) the judge finds that such specification is not prac­
tical; and
"(b) in the case of an application with respect to a wire or
electronic communication—
"(i) the application is by a Federal investigative or law
enforcement officer and is approved by the Attorney Gen­
eral, the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney
General, an Assistant Attorney General, or an acting
Assistant Attorney General;
"(ii) the application identifies the person believed to be
committing the offense and whose communications are to
be intercepted and the applicant makes a showing of a
purpose, on the part of that person, to thwart interception
by changing facilities; and
"(iii) the judge finds that such purpose has been ade­
quately shown.
"(12) An interception of a communication under an order with
respect to which the requirements of subsections (l)(b)(ii) and (3)(d)
of this section do not apply by reason of subsection (11) shall not
begin until the facilities from which, or the place where, the
communication is to be intercepted is ascertained by the person
implementing the interception order. A provider of wire or elec­
tronic communications service that has received an order as pro­
vided for in subsection (11)(b) may move the court to modify or quash
the order on the ground that its assistance with respect to the
interception cannot be performed in a timely or reasonable fashion.
The court, upon notice to the government, shall decide such a
motion expeditiously."
(4) Section 2519(1)(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
inserting "(including whether or not the order was an order with
respect to which the requirements of sections 2518(l)(b)(ii) and
2518(3)(d) of this title did not apply by reason of section 2518(11) of
this title)" after "applied for".

100 STAT. 1858
18 USC 2510
note.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

SEC. 107. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by
this Act constitutes authority for the conduct of any intelligence
activity.
(b) CERTAIN ACTIVITIES UNDER PROCEDURES APPROVED BY THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL.—Nothing in chapter 119 or chapter 121 of title

18 USC 2510 et
seq.; post,
p. 1860.

50 USC 1801
note.

18, United States Code; shall affect the conduct, by officers or
employees of the United States Government in accordance with
other applicable Federal law, under procedures approved by the
Attorney General of activities intended to—
(1) intercept encrypted or other official communications of
United States executive branch entities or United States
Government contractors for communications security purposes;
(2) intercept radio communications transmitted between or
among foreign powers or agents of a foreign power as defined by
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978; or
(3) access an electronic communication system used exclu­
sively by a foreign power or agent of a foreign power as defined
by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978.
SEC. 108. MOBILE TRACKING DEVICES.

18 USC 3117.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 205 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
"§ 3117. Mobile tracking devices
"(a) IN GENERAL.—If a court is empowered to issue a warrant or
other order for the installation of a mobile tracking device, such
order may authorize the use of that device within the jurisdiction of
the court, and outside that jurisdiction if the device is installed in
that jurisdiction.
"(b) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term 'tracking
device' means an electronic or mechanical device which permits the
tracking of the movement of a person or object.".
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of contents at the beginning
of chapter 205 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
"3117. Mobile tracking devices."
SEC. 109. WARNING SUBJECT OF SURVEILLANCE.

Section 2232 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting "(a) PHYSICAL INTERFERENCE WITH SEARCH.—"
before "Whoever" the first place it appears;
(2) by inserting "(b) NOTICE OF SEARCH.—" before "Whoever"
the second place it appears; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
Law
enforcement
and crime.
18 USC 2510 et
seq.; post,
p. 1859.

"(c) NOTICE OF CERTAIN ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE.—Whoever,

having knowledge that a Federal investigative or law enforcement
officer has been authorized or has applied for authorization under
chapter 119 to intercept a wire, oral, or electronic communication,
in order to obstruct, impede, or prevent such interception, gives
notice or attempts to give notice of the possible interception to any
person shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than
five years, or both.
"Whoever, having knowledge that a Federal officer has been
authorized or has applied for authorization to conduct electronic
surveillance under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (50

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1859

U.S.C. 1801, et seq.), in order to obstruct, impede, or prevent such
activity, gives notice or attempts to give notice of the possible
activity to any person shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than five years, or both.".
SEC. 110. INJUNCTIVE REMEDY.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 119 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
"§ 2521. Injunction against illegal interception
18 USC 2521.
"Whenever it shall appear that any person is engaged or is about
to engage in any act which constitutes or will constitute a felony
violation of this chapter, the Attorney General may initiate a civil
action in a district court of the United States to enjoin such viola­
tion. The court shall proceed as soon as practicable to the hearing
and determination of such an action, and may, at any time before
final determination, enter such a restraining order or prohibition, or
take such other action, as is warranted to prevent a continuing and
substantial injury to the United States or to any person or class of
persons for whose protection the action is brought. A proceeding
under this section is governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Proce­
dure, except that, if an indictment has been returned against the 28 USC app.
respondent, discovery is governed by the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure.".
18 USC app.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning
of chapter 119 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following:
"2521. Injunction against illegal interception."
SEC. 111. EFFECTIVE DATE.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c), this
title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall, in the case of
conduct pursuant to a court order or extension, apply only with
respect to court orders or extensions made after this title takes
effect.

18 USC 2510
note.

(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR STATE AUTHORIZATIONS OF INTERCEPTIONS.—

Any interception pursuant to section 2516(2) of title 18 of the United
States Code which would be valid and lawful without regard to the
amendments made by this title shall be valid and lawful notwith­
standing such amendments if such interception occurs during the
period beginning on the date such amendments take effect and
ending on the earlier of—
(1) the day before the date of the taking effect of State law
conforming the applicable State statute with chapter 119 of title
18, United States Code, as so amended; or
18 USC 2510 et
(2) the date two years after the date of the enactment of this seq.
Act.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE FOR CERTAIN APPROVALS BY JUSTICE DEPART­
MENT OFFICIALS.—Section 104 of this Act shall take effect on the

date of enactment of this Act.

100 STAT. 1860

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

TITLE II-STORED WIRE AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICA­
TIONS AND TRANSACTIONAL RECORDS ACCESS
SEC. 201. TITLE 18 AMENDMENT.

Title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after chap­
ter 119 the following:

"CHAPTER 121—STORED WIRE AND ELECTRONIC
COMMUNICATIONS
AND
TRANSACTIONAL
RECORDS ACCESS
"Sec.
"2701. Unlawful access to stored communications.
"2702. Disclosure of contents.
"2703. Requirements for governmental access.
"2704. Backup preservation.
"2705. Delayed notice.
"2706. Cost reimbursement.
"2707. Civil action.
"2708. Exclusivity of remedies.
"2709. Counterintelligence access to telephone toll and transactional records.
"2710. Definitions.

18USC2701.

18USC2702.

"§ 2701. Unlawful access to stored communications
"(a) OFFENSE.—Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section
whoever—
"(1) intentionally accesses without authorization a facility
through which an electronic communication service is provided;
or
"(2) intentionally exceeds an authorization to access that
facility;
and thereby obtains, alters, or prevents authorized access to a wire
or electronic communication while it is in electronic storage in such
system shall be punished as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
"(b) PUNISHMENT.—The punishment for an offense under subsec­
tion (a) of this section is—
"(1) if the offense is committed for purposes of commercial
advantage, malicious destruction or damage, or private commer­
cial gain—
"(A) a fine of not more than $250,000 or imprisonment for
not more than one year, or both, in the case of a first
offense under this subparagraph; and
"(B) a fine under this title or imprisonment for not more
than two years, or both, for any subsequent offense under
this subparagraph; and
"(2) a fine of not more than $5,000 or imprisonment for not
more than six months, or both, in any other case.
"(c) EXCEPTIONS.—Subsection (a) of this section does not apply
with respect to conduct authorized—
"(1) by the person or entity providing a wire or electronic
communications service;
"(2) by a user of that service with respect to a communication
of or intended for that user; or
"(3) in section 2703, 2704 or 2518 of this title.
"§ 2702. Disclosure of contents
"(a) PROHIBITIONS.—Except as provided in subsection (b)—

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1861

"(1) a person or entity providing an electronic communication
service to the public shall not knowingly divulge to any person
or entity the contents of a communication while in electronic
storage by that service; and
"(2) a person or entity providing remote computing service to
the public shall not knowingly divulge to any person or entity
the contents of any communication which is carried or main­
tained on that service—
"(A) on behalf of, and received by means of electronic
transmission from (or created by means of computer
processing of communications received by means of elec­
tronic transmission from), a subscriber or customer of such
service; and
"(B) solely for the purpose of providing storage or com­
puter processing services to such subscriber or customer, if
the provider is not authorized to access the contents of any
such communications for purposes of providing any services
other than storage or computer processing.
"(b) EXCEPTIONS.—A person or entity may divulge the contents of
a communication—
"(1) to an addressee or intended recipient of such communica­
tion or an agent of such addressee or intended recipient;
"(2) as otherwise authorized in section 2516, 2511(2)(a), or 2703
of this title;
18 USC 2516,
"(3) with the lawful consent of the originator or an addressee 2511; infra.
or intended recipient of such communication, or the subscriber
in the case of remote computing service;
"(4) to a person employed or authorized or whose facilities are
used to forward such communication to its destination;
"(5) as may be necessarily incident to the rendition of the
service or to the protection of the rights or property of the
provider of that service; or
"(6) to a law enforcement agency, if such contents—
"(A) were inadvertently obtained by the service provider;
and
"(B) appear to pertain to the commission of a crime.
"§ 2703. Requirements for governmental access
State and local
"(a) CONTENTS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS IN ELECTRONIC

governments.
18 USC 2703.

STORAGE.—A governmental entity may require the disclosure by a
provider of electronic communication service of the contents of an
electronic communication, that is in electronic storage in an elec­
tronic communications system for one hundred and eighty days or
less, only pursuant to a warrant issued under the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure or equivalent State warrant. A governmental 18 USC app.
entity may require the disclosure by a provider of electronic commu­
nications services of the contents of an electronic communication
that has been in electronic storage in an electronic communications
system for more than one hundred and eighty days by the means
available under subsection (b) of this section.
"(b) CONTENTS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS IN A REMOTE
COMPUTING SERVICE.—(1) A governmental entity may require a

provider of remote computing service to disclose the contents of any
electronic communication to which this paragraph is made ap­
plicable by paragraph (2) of this subsection—
"(A) without required notice to the subscriber or customer, if
the governmental entity obtains a warrant issued under the

100 STAT. 1862
18 USC app.

Post, p. 1864.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure or equivalent State war­
rant; or
"(B) with prior notice from the governmental entity to the
subscriber or customer if the governmental entity—
"(i) uses an administrative subpoena authorized by a
Federal or State statute or a Federal or State grand jury
subpoena; or
"(ii) obtains a court order for such disclosure under
subsection (d) of this section;
except that delayed notice may be given pursuant to section
2705 of this title.
"(2) Paragraph (1) is applicable with respect to any electronic
communication that is held or maintained on that service—
"(A) on behalf of, and received by means of electronic trans­
mission from (or created by means of computer processing of
communications received by means of electronic transmission
from), a subscriber or customer of such remote computing serv­
ice; and
"(B) solely for the purpose of providing storage or computer
processing services to such subscriber or customer, if the pro­
vider is not authorized to access the contents of any such
communications for purposes of providing any services other
than storage or computer processing.
"(c) RECORDS CONCERNING ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION SERVICE
OR REMOTE COMPUTING SERVICE.—(1)(A) Except as provided in

Records.

subparagraph (B), a provider of electronic communication service or
remote computing service may disclose a record or other informa­
tion pertaining to a subscriber to or customer of such service (not
including the contents of communications covered by subsection (a)
or (b) of this section) to any person other than a governmental
entity.
"(B) A provider of electronic communication service or remote
computing service shall disclose a record or other information
pertaining to a subscriber to or customer of such service (not
including the contents of communications covered by subsection (a)
or (b) of this section) to a governmental entity only when the
governmental entity—
"(i) uses an administrative subpoena authorized by a Federal
or State statute, or a Federal or State grand jury subpoena;
"(ii) obtains a warrant issued under the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure or equivalent State warrant;
"(iii) obtains a court order for such disclosure under subsec­
tion (d) of this section; or
"(iv) has the consent of the subscriber or customer to such
disclosure.
"(2) A governmental entity receiving records or information under
this subsection is not required to provide notice to a subscriber or
customer.
"(d) REQUIREMENTS FOR COURT ORDER.—A court order for disclo­
sure under subsection (b) or (c) of this section shall issue only if the
governmental entity shows that there is reason to believe the
contents of a wire or electronic communication, or the records or
other information sought, are relevant to a legitimate law enforce­
ment inquiry. In the case of a State governmental authority, such a
court order shall not issue if prohibited by the law of such State. A
court issuing an order pursuant to this section, on a motion made
promptly by the service provider, may quash or modify such order, if

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1863

the information or records requested are unusually voluminous in
nature or compliance with such order otherwise would cause an
undue burden on such provider.
"(e) No CAUSE OF ACTION AGAINST A PROVIDER DISCLOSING
INFORMATION UNDER THIS CHAPTER.—No cause of action shall lie in

any court against any provider of wire or electronic communication
service, its officers, employees, agents, or other specified persons for
providing information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with
the terms of a court order, warrant, subpoena, or certification under
this chapter.
"§ 2704. Backup preservation
18USC2704.
"(a) BACKUP PRESERVATION.—(1) A governmental entity acting
under section 2703(b)(2) may include in its subpoena or court order a
requirement that the service provider to whom the request is
directed create a backup copy of the contents of the electronic
communications sought in order to preserve those communications.
Without notifying the subscriber or customer of such subpoena or
court order, such service provider shall create such backup copy as
soon as practicable consistent with its regular business practices and
shall confirm to the governmental entity that such backup copy has
been made. Such backup copy shall be created within two business
days after receipt by the service provider of the subpoena or court
order.
"(2) Notice to the subscriber or customer shall be made by the
governmental entity within three days after receipt of such con­
firmation, unless such notice is delayed pursuant to section 2705(a).
"(3) The service provider shall not destroy such backup copy until
the later of—
"(A) the delivery of the information; or
"(B) the resolution of any proceedings (including appeals of
any proceeding) concerning the government's subpoena or court
order.
"(4) The service provider shall release such backup copy to the
requesting governmental entity no sooner than fourteen days after
the governmental entity's notice to the subscriber or customer if
such service provider—
"(A) has not received notice from the subscriber or customer
that the subscriber or customer has challenged the govern­
mental entity's request; and
"(B) has not initiated proceedings to challenge the request of
the governmental entity.
"(5) A governmental entity may seek to require the creation of a
backup copy under subsection (a)(l) of this section if in its sole
discretion such entity determines that there is reason to believe that
notification under section 2703 of this title of the existence of the
subpoena or court order may result in destruction of or tampering
with evidence. This determination is not subject to challenge by the
subscriber or customer or service provider.
"(b) CUSTOMER CHALLENGES.—(1) Within fourteen days after notice
by the governmental entity to the subscriber or customer under
subsection (a)(2) of this section, such subscriber or customer may file
a motion to quash such subpoena or vacate such court order, with
copies served upon the governmental entity and with written notice
of such challenge to the service provider. A motion to vacate a court
order shall be filed in the court which issued such order. A motion to
quash a subpoena shall be filed in the appropriate United States

100 STAT. 1864

28 USC app.

18 USC 2705.

State and local
governments.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

district court or State court. Such motion or application shall con­
tain an affidavit or sworn statement—
"(A) stating that the applicant is a customer or subscriber to
the service from which the contents of electronic communica­
tions maintained for him have been sought; and
"(B) stating the applicant's reasons for believing that the
records sought are not relevant to a legitimate law enforcement
inquiry or that there has not been substantial compliance with
the provisions of this chapter in some other respect.
"(2) Service shall be made under this section upon a governmental
entity by delivering or mailing by registered or certified mail a copy
of the papers to the person, office, or department specified in the
notice which the customer has received pursuant to this chapter.
For the purposes of this section, the term 'delivery' has the meaning
given that term in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
"(3) If the court finds that the customer has complied with para­
graphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, the court shall order the
governmental entity to file a sworn response, which may be filed in
camera if the governmental entity includes in its response the
reasons which make in camera review appropriate. If the court is
unable to determine the motion or application on the basis of the
parties' initial allegations and response, the court may conduct such
additional proceedings as it deems appropriate. All such proceedings
shall be completed and the motion or application decided as soon as
practicable after the filing of the governmental entity's response.
"(4) If the court finds that the applicant is not the subscriber or
customer for whom the communications sought by the govern­
mental entity are maintained, or that there is a reason to believe
that the law enforcement inquiry is legitimate and that the commu­
nications sought are relevant to that inquiry, it shall deny the
motion or application and order such process enforced. If the court
finds that the applicant is the subscriber or customer for whom the
communications sought by the governmental entity are maintained,
and that there is not a reason to believe that the communications
sought are relevant to a legitimate law enforcement inquiry, or that
there has not been substantial compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, it shall order the process quashed.
"(5) A court order denying a motion or application under this
section shall not be deemed a final order and no interlocutory
appeal may be taken therefrom by the customer.
"§ 2705. Delayed notice
"(a) DELAY OF NOTIFICATION.—(1) A governmental entity acting
under section 2703(b) of this title may—
"(A) where a court order is sought, include in the application
a request, which the court shall grant, for an order delaying the
notification required under section 2703(b) of this title for a
period not to exceed ninety days, if the court determines that
there is reason to believe that notification of the existence of the
court order may have an adverse result described in paragraph
(2) of this subsection; or
"(B) where an administrative subpoena authorized by a Fed­
eral or State statute or a Federal or State grand jury subpoena
is obtained, delay the notification required under section 2703(b)
of this title for a period not to exceed ninety days upon the
execution of a written certification of a supervisory official that
there is reason to believe that notification of the existence of the

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1865

subpoena may have an adverse result described in paragraph (2)
of this subsection.
"(2) An adverse result for the purposes of paragraph (1) of this
subsection is—
"(A) endangering the life or physical safety of an individual;
"(B) flight from prosecution;
"(C) destruction of or tampering with evidence;
"(D) intimidation of potential witnesses; or
"(E) otherwise seriously jeopardizing an investigation or
unduly delaying a trial.
"(3) The governmental entity shall maintain a true copy of certifi­
cation under paragraph (1)(B).
"(4) Extensions of the delay of notification provided in section
2703 of up to ninety days each may be granted by the court upon
application, or by certification by a governmental entity, but only in
accordance with subsection (b) of this section.
"(5) Upon expiration of the period of delay of notification under
paragraph (1) or (4) of this subsection, the governmental entity shall
serve upon, or deliver by registered or first-class mail to, the cus­
tomer or subscriber a copy of the process or request together with
notice that—
"(A) states with reasonable specificity the nature of the law
enforcement inquiry; and
"(B) informs such customer or subscriber—
"(i) that information maintained for such customer or
subscriber by the service provider named in such process or
request was supplied to or requested by that governmental
authority and the date on which the supplying or request
took place;
"(ii) that notification of such customer or subscriber was
delayed;
"(iii) what governmental entity or court made the certifi­
cation or determination pursuant to which that delay was
made; and
"(iv) which provision of this chapter allowed such delay.
"(6) As used in this subsection, the term 'supervisory official'
means the investigative agent in charge or assistant investiga­
tive agent in charge or an equivalent of an investigating agen­
cy's headquarters or regional office, or the chief prosecuting
attorney or the first assistant prosecuting attorney or an
equivalent of a prosecuting attorney's headquarters or regional
office.
"(b)

PRECLUSION OF NOTICE TO SUBJECT OF GOVERNMENTAL

ACCESS.—A governmental entity acting under section 2703, when it
is not required to notify the subscriber or customer under section
2703(b)(1), or to the extent that it may delay such notice pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section, may apply to a court for an order
commanding a provider of electronic communications service or
remote computing service to whom a warrant, subpoena, or court
order is directed, for such period as the court deems appropriate, not
to notify any other person of the existence of the warrant, subpoena,
or court order. The court shall enter such an order if it determines
that there is reason to believe that notification of the existence of
the warrant, subpoena, or court order will result in—
"(1) endangering the life or physical safety of an individual;
"(2) flight from prosecution;
"(3) destruction of or tampering with evidence;

100 STAT. 1866

18 USC 2706.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

"(4) intimidation of potential witnesses; or
"(5) otherwise seriously jeopardizing an investigation or
unduly delaying a trial.
"§ 2706. Cost reimbursement
"(a) PAYMENT.—Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c), a
governmental entity obtaining the contents of communications,
records, or other information under section 2702, 2703, or 2704 of
this title shall pay to the person or entity assembling or providing
such information a fee for reimbursement for such costs as are
reasonably necessary and which have been directly incurred in
searching for, assembling, reproducing, or otherwise providing such
information. Such reimbursable costs shall include any costs due to
necessary disruption of normal operations of any electronic commu­
nication service or remote computing service in which such informa­
tion may be stored.
"(b) AMOUNT.—The amount of the fee provided by subsection (a)
shall be as mutually agreed by the governmental entity and the
person or entity providing the information, or, in the absence of
agreement, shall be as determined by the court which issued the
order for production of such information (or the court before which a
criminal prosecution relating to such information would be brought,
if no court order was issued for production of the information).
"(c) The requirement of subsection (a) of this section does not
apply with respect to records or other information maintained by a
communications common carrier that relate to telephone toll
records and telephone listings obtained under section 2703 of this
title. The court may, however, order a payment as described in
subsection (a) if the court determines the information required is
unusually voluminous in nature or otherwise caused an undue
burden on the provider.
"§ 2707. Civil action
"(a) CAUSE OF ACTION.—Except as provided in section 2703(e), any
provider of electronic communication service, subscriber, or cus­
tomer aggrieved by any violation of this chapter in which the
conduct constituting the violation is engaged in with a knowing or
intentional state of mind may, in a civil action, recover from the
person or entity which engaged in that violation such relief as may
be appropriate.
"(b) RELIEF.—In a civil action under this section, appropriate
relief includes—
"(1) such preliminary and other equitable or declaratory relief
as may be appropriate;
"(2) damages under subsection (c); and
"(3) a reasonable attorney's fee and other litigation costs
reasonably incurred.
"(c) DAMAGES.—The court may assess as damages in a civil action
under this section the sum of the actual damages suffered by the
plaintiff and any profits made by the violator as a result of the
violation, but in no case shall a person entitled to recover receive
less than the sum of $1,000.
"(d) DEFENSE.—A good faith reliance on—
"(1) a court warrant or order, a grand jury subpoena, a
legislative authorization, or a statutory authorization;
"(2) a request of an investigative or law enforcement officer
under section 2518(7) of this title; or

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1867

"(3) a good faith determination that section 2511(3) of this
title permitted the conduct complained of;
is a complete defense to any civil or criminal action brought under
this chapter or any other law.
"(e) LIMITATION.—A civil action under this section may not be
commenced later than two years after the date upon which the
claimant first discovered or had a reasonable opportunity to dis­
cover the violation.
"§ 2708. Exclusivity of remedies
18USC2708.
"The remedies and sanctions described in this chapter are the
only judicial remedies and sanctions for nonconstitutional violations
of this chapter.
"§ 2709. Counterintelligence access to telephone toll and trans- 18 USC 2709.
actional records
"(a) DUTY TO PROVIDE.—A wire or electronic communication serv­
ice provider shall comply with a request for subscriber information
and toll billing records information, or electronic communication
transactional records in its custody or possession made by the
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation under subsection (b)
of this section.
"(b) REQUIRED CERTIFICATION.—The Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (or an individual within the Federal Bureau
of Investigation designated for this purpose by the Director) may
request any such information and records if the Director (or the
Director's designee) certifies in writing to the wire or electronic
communication service provider to which the request is made that—
"(1) the information sought is relevant to an authorized for­
eign counterintelligence investigation; and
"(2) there are specific and articulable facts giving reason to
believe that the person or entity to whom the information
sought pertains is a foreign power or an agent of a foreign
power as defined in section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
"(c) PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURE.—NO wire or electronic
communication service provider, or officer, employee, or agent
thereof, shall disclose to any person that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has sought or obtained access to information or
records under this section.
"(d) DISSEMINATION BY BUREAU.—The Federal Bureau of Inves­
tigation may disseminate information and records obtained under
this section only as provided in guidelines approved by the Attorney
General for foreign intelligence collection and foreign counterintel­
ligence investigations conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investiga­
tion, and, with respect to dissemination to an agency of the United
States, only if such information is clearly relevant to the authorized
responsibilities of such agency.
"(e) REQUIREMENT THAT CERTAIN CONGRESSIONAL BODIES BE IN­

FORMED.—On a semiannual basis the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation shall fully inform the Permanent Select Committee

100 STAT. 1868

18 USC 2710.

18 USC 2701
note.

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate concerning all requests
made under subsection (b) of this section.
"§ 2710. Definitions for chapter
"As used in this chapter—
"(1) the terms defined in section 2510 of this title have,
respectively, the definitions given such terms in that section;
and
"(2) the term 'remote computing service' means the provision
to the public of computer storage or processing services by
means of an electronic communications system."
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of chapters at the beginning
of part I of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
"121. Stored Wire and Electronic Communications and Transactional
Records Access
2701".
SEC. 202. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect
ninety days after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall, in
the case of conduct pursuant to a court order or extension, apply
only with respect to court orders or extensions made after this title
takes effect.
TITLE III—PEN REGISTERS AND TRAP AND TRACE
DEVICES
SEC. 301. TITLE 18 AMENDMENT.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title 18 of the United States Code is amended by
inserting after chapter 205 the following new chapter:

"CHAPTER 206—PEN REGISTERS AND TRAP AND
TRACE DEVICES
"Sec.

"3121.
"3122.
"3123.
"3124.

General prohibition on pen register and trap and trace device use; exception.
Application for an order for a pen register or a trap and trace device.
Issuance of an order for a pen register or a trap or trace device.
Assistance in installation and use of a pen register or a trap and trace
device.
"3125. Reports concerning pen registers and trap and trace devices.
"3126. Definitions for chapter.
18 USC 3121.

"§ 3121. General prohibition on pen register and trap and trace
device use; exception
"(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in this section, no person
may install or use a pen register or a trap and trace device without
first obtaining a court order under section 3123 of this title or under
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et
seq.).
(b) EXCEPTION.—The prohibition of subsection (a) does not apply
with respect to the use of a pen register or a trap and trace device by
a provider of electronic or wire communication service—

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1869

"(1) relating to the operation, maintenance, and testing of a
wire or electronic communication service or to the protection of
the rights or property of such provider, or to the protection of
users of that service from abuse of service or unlawful use of
service; or
"(2) to record the fact that a wire or electronic communication
was initiated or completed in order to protect such provider,
another provider furnishing service toward the completion of
the wire communication, or a user of that service, from fraudu­
lent, unlawful or abusive use of service; or (3) where the consent
of the user of that service has been obtained.
"(c) PENALTY.—Whoever knowingly violates subsection (a) shall be
fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
"§ 3122. Application for an order for a pen register or a trap and 18 USC 3122.
trace device
"(a) APPLICATION.—(1) An attorney for the Government may make
application for an order or an extension of an order under section
3123 of this title authorizing or approving the installation and use of
a pen register or a trap and trace device under this chapter, in
writing under oath or equivalent affirmation, to a court of com­
petent jurisdiction.
"(2) Unless prohibited by State law, a State investigative or law State and local
enforcement officer may make application for an order or an exten- governments.
sion of an order under section 3123 of this title authorizing or
approving the installation and use of a pen register or a trap and
trace device under this chapter, in writing under oath or equivalent
affirmation, to a court of competent jurisdiction of such State.
"(b) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.—An application under subsection
(a) of this section shall include—
"(1) the identity of the attorney for the Government or the
State law enforcement or investigative officer making the ap­
plication and the identity of the law enforcement agency
conducting the investigation; and
"(2) a certification by the applicant that the information
likely to be obtained is relevant to an ongoing criminal inves­
tigation being conducted by that agency.
"§ 3123. Issuance of an order for a pen register or a trap and trace
device
"(a) IN GENERAL.—Upon an application made under section 3122
of this title, the court shall enter an ex parte order authorizing the
installation and use of a pen register or a trap and trace device
within the jurisdiction of the court if the court finds that the
attorney for the Government or the State law enforcement or
investigative officer has certified to the court that the information
likely to be obtained by such installation and use is relevant to an
ongoing criminal investigation.
"(b) CONTENTS OF ORDER.—An order issued under this section—
"(1) shall specify—
"(A) the identity, if known, of the person to whom is
leased or in whose name is listed the telephone line to
which the pen register or trap and trace device is to be
attached;
"(B) the identity, if known, of the person who is the
subject of the criminal investigation;

100 STAT. 1870

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

"(C) the number and, if known, physical location of the
telephone line to which the pen register or trap and trace
device is to be attached and, in the case of a trap and trace
device, the geographic limits of the trap and trace order;
and
"(D) a statement of the offense to which the information
likely to be obtained by the pen register or trap and trace
device relates; and
"(2) shall direct, upon the request of the applicant, the fur­
nishing of information, facilities, and technical assistance nec­
essary to accomplish the installation of the pen register or trap
and trace device under section 3124 of this title,
"(c) TIME PERIOD AND EXTENSIONS.—(1) An order issued under this
section shall authorize the installation and use of a pen register or a
trap and trace device for a period not to exceed sixty days.
"(2) Extensions of such an order may be granted, but only upon an
application for an order under section 3122 of this title and upon the
judicial finding required by subsection (a) of this section. The period
of extension shall be for a period not to exceed sixty days.
"(d) NONDISCLOSURE OF EXISTENCE OF PEN REGISTER OR A TRAP AND
TRACE DEVICE.—An order authorizing or approving the installation

18 USC 3124.

and use of a pen register or a trap and trace device shall direct
that—
"(1) the order be sealed until otherwise ordered by the court;
and
"(2) the person owning or leasing the line to which the pen
register or a trap and trace device is attached, or who has been
ordered by the court to provide assistance to the applicant, not
disclose the existence of the pen register or trap and trace
device or the existence of the investigation to the listed
subscriber, or to any other person, unless or until otherwise
ordered by the court.
"§ 3124. Assistance in installation and use of a pen register or a
trap and trace device
"(a) PEN REGISTERS.—Upon the request of an attorney for the
Government or an officer of a law enforcement agency authorized to
install and use a pen register under this chapter, a provider of wire
or electronic communication service, landlord, custodian, or other
person shall furnish such investigative or law enforcement officer
forthwith all information, facilities, and technical assistance nec­
essary to accomplish the installation of the pen register unobtru­
sively and with a minimum of interference with the services that
the person so ordered by the court accords the party with respect to
whom the installation and use is to take place, if such assistance is
directed by a court order as provided in section 3123(b)(2) of this
title.
"(b) TRAP AND TRACE DEVICE.—Upon the request of an attorney
for the Government or an officer of a law enforcement agency
authorized to receive the results of a trap and trace device under
this chapter, a provider of a wire or electronic communication
service, landlord, custodian, or other person shall install such device
forthwith on the appropriate line and shall furnish such investiga­
tive or law enforcement officer all additional information, facilities
and technical assistance including installation and operation of the

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1871

device unobtrusively and with a minimum of interference with the
services that the person so ordered by the court accords the party
with respect to whom the installation and use is to take place, if
such installation and assistance is directed by a court order as
provided in section 3123(b)(2) of this title. Unless otherwise ordered
by the court, the results of the trap and trace device shall be
furnished to the officer of a law enforcement agency, designated in
the court, at reasonable intervals during regular business hours for
the duration of the order.
"(c) COMPENSATION.—A provider of a wire or electronic commu­
nication service, landlord, custodian, or other person who furnishes
facilities or technical assistance pursuant to this section shall be
reasonably compensated for such reasonable expenses incurred in
providing such facilities and assistance.
"(d) No CAUSE OF ACTION AGAINST A PROVIDER DISCLOSING
INFORMATION UNDER THIS CHAPTER.—NO cause of action shall lie in

any court against any provider of a wire or electronic communica­
tion service, its officers, employees, agents, or other specified per­
sons for providing information, facilities, or assistance in accordance
with the terms of a court order under this chapter.
"(e) DEFENSE.—A good faith reliance on a court order, a legislative
authorization, or a statutory authorization is a complete defense
against any civil or criminal action brought under this chapter or
any other law.
"§ 3125. Reports concerning pen registers and trap and trace 18 USC 3125.
devices
"The Attorney General shall annually report to Congress on the
number of pen register orders and orders for trap and trace devices
applied for by law enforcement agencies of the Department of
Justice.
"§ 3126. Definitions for chapter
"As used in this chapter—
"(1) the terms 'wire communication', 'electronic communica­
tion', and 'electronic communication service' have the meanings
set forth for such terms in section 2510 of this title;
"(2) the term 'court of competent jurisdiction' means—
"(A) a district court of the United States (including a
magistrate of such a court) or a United States Court of
Appeals; or
"(B) a court of general criminal jurisdiction of a State
authorized by the law of that State to enter orders authoriz­
ing the use of a pen register or a trap and trace device;
"(3) the term 'pen register' means a device which records or
decodes electronic or other impulses which identify the numbers
dialed or otherwise transmitted on the telephone line to which
such device is attached, but such term does not include any
device used by a provider or customer of a wire or electronic
communication service for billing, or recording as an incident to
billing, for communications services provided by such provider
or any device used by a provider or customer of a wire commu­
nication service for cost accounting or other like purposes in the
ordinary course of its business;

100 STAT. 1872

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

"(4) the term 'trap and trace device' means a device which
captures the incoming electronic or other impulses which iden­
tify the originating number of an instrument or device from
which a wire or electronic communication was transmitted;
"(5) the term 'attorney for the Government' has the meaning
given such term for the purposes of the Federal Rules of Crimi­
nal Procedure; and
"(6) the term 'State' means a State, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, and any other possession or territory of the United
States.".
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of chapters for part II of
title 18 of the United States Code is amended by inserting after the
item relating to chapter 205 the following new item:
"206. Pen Registers and Trap and Trace Devices
18 USC 3121
note.

3121".

SEC. 302. EFFECTIVE DATE.

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subsection (b), this title
and the amendments made by this title shall take effect ninety days
after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall, in the case of
conduct pursuant to a court order or extension, apply only with
respect to court orders or extensions made after this title takes
effect.
(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR STATE AUTHORIZATIONS OF INTERCEPTIONS.—

Any pen register or trap and trace device order or installation which
would be valid and lawful without regard to the amendments made
by this title shall be valid and lawful notwithstanding such amend­
ments if such order or installation occurs during the period begin­
ning on the date such amendments take effect and ending on the
earlier of—
(1) the day before the date of the taking effect of changes in
State law required in order to make orders or installations
under Federal law as amended by this title; or
(2) the date two years after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 303. INTERFERENCE WITH THE OPERATION OF A SATELLITE.

(a) OFFENSE.—Chapter 65 of title 18, United States Code, is amend­
ed by inserting at the end the following:
18 USC 1367.

"§ 1367. Interference with the operation of a satellite
"(a) Whoever, without the authority of the satellite operator,
intentionally or maliciously interferes with the authorized operation
of a communications or weather satellite or obstructs or hinders any
satellite transmission shall be fined in accordance with this title or
imprisoned not more than ten years or both.
"(b) This section does not prohibit any lawfully authorized inves­
tigative, protective, or intelligence activity of a law enforcement
agency or of an intelligence agency of the United States."

PUBLIC LAW 99-508—OCT. 21, 1986

100 STAT. 1873

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for chapter
65 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
"1367. Interference with the operation of a satellite.".

Approved October 21, 1986.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY—H.R. 4952 (S. 2575):
HOUSE REPORTS: No. 99-647 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 132 (1986):
June 23, considered and passed House.
Oct. 1, considered and passed Senate, amended.
Oct. 2, House concurred in Senate amendments.

