105 STAT. 2394

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991

Public Law 102-243
102d Congress
An Act
Dec. 20 1991
re 14(521

Telephone
Consumer
Protection Act of
1991

'^^ amend the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit certain practices involving the
" ^ °^ telephone equipment.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

47 use 609 note

'^'^i^ Act may be cited as the "Telephone Consumer Protection Act
of 1991".

47 u s e 227 note.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

The Congress finds that:
(1) The use of the telephone to market goods and services to
the home and other businesses is now pervasive due to the
increased use of cost-effective telemarketing techniques.
(2) Over 30,000 businesses actively telemarket goods and services to business and residential customers.
(3) More than 300,000 solicitors call more than 18,000,000
Americans every day.
(4) Total United States sales generated through telemarketing
amounted to $435,000,000,000 in 1990, a more than four-fold
increase since 1984.
(5) Unrestricted telemarketing, however, can be an intrusive
invasion of privacy and, when an emergency or medical assistance telephone line is seized, a risk to public safety.
(6) Many consumers are outraged over the proliferation of
intrusive, nuisance calls to their homes from telemarketers.
(7) Over half the States now have/statutes restricting various
uses of the telephone for marketing, but telemarketers can
evade their prohibitions through interstate operations; therefore. Federal law is needed to control residential telemarketing
practices.
(8) The Constitution does not prohibit restrictions on commercial telemarketing solicitations.
(9) Individuals' privacy rights, public safety interests, and
commercial freedoms of speech and trade must be balanced in a
way that protects the privacy of individuals and permits legitimate telemarketing practices.
(10) Evidence compiled by the Congress indicates that residential telephone subscribers consider automated or prerecorded
telephone calls, regardless of the content or the initiator of the
message, to be a nuisance and an invasion of privacy.
(11) Technologies that might allow consumers to avoid receiving such calls are not universally available, are costly, are
unlikely to be enforced, or place an inordinate burden on the
consumer,
(12) Banning such automated or prerecorded telephone calls
to the home, except when the receiving party consents to receiving the call or when such calls are necessary in an emergency

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991

105 STAT. 2395

situation affecting the health and safety of the consumer, is the
only effective means of protecting telephone consumers from
this nuisance and privacy invasion.
(13) While the evidence presented to the Congress indicates
that automated or prerecorded calls are a nuisance and an
invasion of privacy, regardless of the type of call, the Federal
Communications Commission should have the flexibility to
design different rules for those types of automated or
prerecorded calls that it finds are nbt considered a nuisance or
invasion of privacy, or for noncommercial calls, consistent with
the free speech protections embodied in the First Amendment of
the Constitution.
(14) Businesses also have complained to the Congress and the
Federal (Communications Commission that automated or
prerecorded telephone calls are a nuisance, are an invasion of
privacy, and interfere with interstate commerce.
(15) The Federal Communications Commission should consider adopting reasonable restrictions on automated or
prerecorded calls to businesses as well as to the home, consistent with the constitutional protections of free speech.
SEC. 3. RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT.

(a) AMENDMENT.—Title II of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 201 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
"SEC. 227. RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT.

"(a) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
"(1) The term 'automatic telephone dialing system' means
equipment which has the capacity—
"(A) to store or produce telephone numbers to be called,
using a random or sequential number generator; and
"(B) to dial such numbers.
"(2) The term 'telephone facsimile machine' means equipment
which has the capacity (A) to transcribe text or images, or both,
from paper into an electronic signal and to transmit that signal
over a regular telephone line, or (B) to transcribe text or images
(or both) from an electronic signal received over a regular
telephone line onto paper.
"(3) The term 'telephone solicitation' means the initiation of a
telephone call or message for the purpose of encouraging the
purchase or rental of, or investment in, property, goods, or
services, which is transmitted to any person, but such term does
not include a call or message (A) to any person with that
person's prior express invitation or permission, (B) to any
person with whom the caller has an established business relationship, or (C) by a tax exempt nonprofit organization.
"(4) The term unsolicited advertisement' means any material
advertising the commercial availability or quality of any property, goods, or services which is transmitted to any person
without that person's prior express invitation or permission.
"(b) RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF AUTOMATED TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT,—

"(1) PROHIBITIONS.—It shall be unlawful for any person within
the United States—
"(A) to make any call (other than a call made for emergency purposes or made with the prior express consent of

47 USC 227.

105 STAT. 2396

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991
the called party) using any automatic telephone dialing
system or an artificial or prerecorded voice—
"(i) to any emergency telephone line (including any
'911' line and any emergency line of a hospital, medical
physician or service office, health care facility, poison
control center, or fire protection or law enforcement
agency);
"(ii) to the telephone line of any guest room or
patient room of a hospital, health care facility, elderly
home, or similar establishment; or
"(iii) to any telephone number assigned to a paging
service, cellular telephone service, specialized mobile
radio service, or other radio common carrier service, or
any service for which the called party is charged for the
call;
"(B) to initiate any telephone call to any residential
telephone line using an artificial or prerecorded voice to
deliver a message without the prior express consent of the
called party, unless the call is initiated for emergency
purposes or is exempted by rule or order by the Commission
under paragraph (2)(B);
"(C) to use any telephone facsimile machine, computer, or
other device to send an unsolicited advertisement to a
telephone facsimile machine; or
"(D) to use an automatic telephone dialing system in such
a way that two or more telephone lines of a multi-line
business are engaged simultaneously.
"(2) REGULATIONS; EXEMPTIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS.—The

Commission shall prescribe regulations ta implement the
requirements of this subsection. In implementing the requirements of this subsection, the Commission—
"(A) shall consider prescribing regulations to allow
businesses to avoid receiving calls made using an artificial
or prerecorded voice to which they have not given their
prior express consent; and
"(B) may, by rule or order, exempt from the requirements
of paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection, subject to such conditions as the Commission may prescribe—
"(i) calls that are not made for a commercial purpose;
and
"(ii) such classes or categories of calls made for
commercial purposes as the Commission determines—
"(I) will not adversely affect the privacy rights
that this section is intended to protect; and
"(II) do not include the transmission of any unsolicited advertisement.
"(3) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—A person or entity may, if
otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State,
bring in an appropriate court of that State—
"(A) an action based on a violation of this subsection or
the regulations prescribed under this subsection to enjoin
such violation,
"(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from
such a violation, or to receive $500 in dameiges for each such
violation, whichever is greater, or
"(C) both such actions.

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991
If the court finds that the defendant willfully or knowingly
violated this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this
subsection, the court may, in its discretion, increase the amount
of the award to an amount equal to not more than 3 times the
amount available under subparagraph (B) of this parsigraph.
"(c) PROTECTION OF SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY RIGHTS.—
"(1) RULEMAKING PROCEEDING REQUIRED.—Within

120 days
after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall
initiate a rulemaking proceeding concerning the need to protect
residential telephone subscribers' privacy rights to avoid receiving telephone solicitations to which they object. The proceeding
shall—
"(A) compare and evaluate alternative methods and
procedures (including the use of electronic databases, telephone network technologies, special directory markings,
industry-based or company-specific 'do not call' systems,
and any other alternatives, individually or in combination)
for their effectiveness in protecting such privacy rights, and
in terms of their cost and other advantages and disadvantages;
(B) evaluate the categories of public and private entities
that would have the capacity to establish and administer
such methods and procedures;
•^
"(C) consider whether different methods and procedures
may apply for local telephone solicitations, such as local
telephone solicitations of small businesses or holders of
second class mail permits;
"(D) consider whether there is a need for additional
(Ik)mmission authority to further restrict telephone solicitations, including those calls exempted under subsection (aX3)
of this section, and, if such a finding is made and supported
by the record, propose specific restrictions to the Congress;
and
"(E) develop proposed regulations to implement the methods and procedures that the Commission determines are
most effective and efficient to accomplish the purposes of
this section.
"(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 9 months after the date of
enactment of this section, the Commission shall conclude the
rulemaking proceeding initiated under paragraph (1) and shall
prescribe regulations to implement methods and procedures for
protecting the privacy rights described in such paragraph in an
efficient, effective, and economic manner and without the imposition of any additional charge to telephone subscribers.
"(3) USE OF DATABASE PERMITTED.—The regulations required
by paragraph (2) may require the establishment and operation
of a single national database to compile a list of telephone
numbers of residential subscribers who object to receiving telephone solicitations, and to make that compiled list and parts
thereof available for purchase. If the (Commission determines to
require such a database, such regulations shall—
"(A) specify a method by which the Commission will
select an entity to administer such database;
"(B) require each common carrier providing telephone
exchange service, in accordance with regulations prescribed
by the Commission, to inform subscribers for telephone
exchange service of the opportunity to provide notification,

105 STAT. 2397

105 STAT. 2398

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991
in accordance with regulations established under this paragraph, that such subscriber objects to receiving telephone
solicitations;
"(C) specify the methods by which each telephone subscriber shall be informed, by the common carrier that
provides local exchange service to that subscriber, of (i) the
subscriber's right to give or revoke a notification of an
objection under subparagraph (A), and (ii) the methods by
which such right may be exercised by the subscriber;
"(D) specify the methods by which such objections shall
be collected and added to the database;
"(E) prohibit any residential subscriber from being
charged for giving or revoking such notification or for being
included in a database compiled under this section;
"(F) prohibit any person from making or transmitting a
telephone solicitation to the telephone number of any subscriber included in such database;
"(G) specify (i) the methods by which any person desiring
to make or transmit telephone solicitations will obtain
access to the database, by area code or local exchange
prefix, as required to avoid calling the telephone numbers
of subscribers included in such database; and (ii) the costs to
be recovered from such persons;
"(H) specify the methods for recovering, from persons
accessing such database, the costs involved in identifying,
collecting, updating, disseminating, and selling, and other
activities relating to, the operations of the database that
are incurred by the entities carrying out those activities;
"(I) specify the frequency with which such database will
be updated and specify the method by which such updating
will take effect for purposes of compliance with the regulations prescribed under this subsection;
"(J) be designed to enable States to use the database
mechEinism selected by the (Commission for purposes of
administering or enforcing State law;
"(K) prohibit the use of such database for any purpose
other than compliance with the requirements of this section
and any such State law and specify methods for protection
of the privacy rights of persons whose numbers are included
in such database; and
"(L) require each common carrier providing services to
any person for the purpose of making telephone solicitations to notify such person of the requirements of this
section and the regulations thereunder.
"(4)

CONSIDERATIONS

REQUIRED

FOR

USE

OF

DATABASE

METHOD.—If the (Dommission determines to require the database
mechanism described in paragraph (3), the Commission shall—
"(A) in developing procedures for gaining access to the
database, consider the different needs of telemarketers
conducting business on a national, regional, State, or local
level;
"(B) develop a fee schedule or price structure for recouping the cost of such database that recognizes such differences and—
"(i) reflect the relative costs of providing a national,
regional, State, or local list of phone numbers of

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991

105 STAT. 2399

subscribers who object to receiving telephone solicitations;
"(ii) reflect the relative costs of providing such lists
on paper or electronic media; and
"(iii) not place an unreasonable financial burden on
small businesses; and
"(C) consider (i) whether the needs of telemarketers
operating on a local basis could be met through special
markings of area white pages directories, and (ii) if such
directories are needed as an adjunct to database lists prepared by area code and local exchange prefix.
"(5) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—A person who has received
more than one telephone call within any 12-month period by or
on behalf of the same entity in violation of the regulations
prescribed under this subsection may, if otherwise permitted by
the laws or rules of court of a State bring in an appropriate
court of t h a t State—
"(A) an action based on a violation of the regulations
prescribed under this subsection to enjoin such violation,
"(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from
such a violation, or to receive up to $500 in damages for
each such violation, whichever is greater, or
"(C) both such actions.
It shall be an affirmative defense in any action brought under
this paragraph that the defendant has established and implemented, with due care, reasonable practices and procedures to
effectively prevent telephone solicitations in violation of the
regulations prescribed under this subsection. If the court finds
that the defendant willfully or knowingly violated the regulations prescribed under this subsection, the court may, in its
discretion, increase the amount of the award to an amount
equal to not more than 8 times the amount available under
subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
"(6) RELATION TO SUBSECTION (B).—The provisions of this
subsection shall not be construed to permit a communication
prohibited by subsection (b).
"(d) TECHNICAL AND PROCEDURAL STANDARDS.—

"(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for any person within
the United States—
"(A) to initiate any communication using a telephone
facsimile machine, or to make any telephone call using any
automatic telephone dialing system, that does not comply
with the technical and procedural standards prescribed
under this subsection, or to use any telephone facsimile
machine or automatic telephone dialing system in a
manner that does not comply with such standards; or
"(B) to use a computer or other electronic device to send
any message via a telephone facsimile machine unless such
person clearly marks, in a margin at the top or bottom of
each transmitted page of the message or on the first page of
the transmission, the date and time it is sent and an
identification of the business, other entity, or individual
sending the message and the telephone number of the
sending machine or of such business, other entity, or
individual.
"(2) TELEPHONE FACSIMILE MACHINES.—The Commission shall
revise the regulations setting technical and procedural stand-

Regulations.

105 STAT. 2400

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991
ards for telephone facsimile machines to require that any such
machine which is manufactured after one year after the date of
enactment of this section clearly marks, in a margin at the top
or bottom of each transmitted page or on the first page of each
transmission, the date and time sent, an identification of the
business, other entity, or individual sending the message, and
the telephone number of the sending machine or of such business, other entity, or individual.
"(3) ARTIFICIAL OR PRERECORDED VOICE SYSTEMS.—The Commis-

sion shall prescribe technical and procedural standards for
systems that are used to transmit any artificial or prerecorded
voice message via telephone. Such standards shall require
that—
"(A) all artificial or prerecorded telephone messages (i)
shall, at the beginning of the message, state clearly the
identity of the business, individual, or other entity initiating the call, and (ii) shall, during or after the message, state
clearly the telephone number or address of such business,
other entity, or individual; and
"(B) any such system will automatically release the called
party's line within 5 seconds of the time notification is
transmitted to the system that the called party has hung
up, to allow the called party's line to be used to make or
receive other calls.
"(e) EFFECT ON STATE LAW.—
"(1) STATE LAW NOT PREEMPTED.—Except for the standards

prescribed under subsection (d) and subject to paragraph (2) of
this subsection, nothing in this section or in the regulations
prescribed under this section shall preempt any State law that
imposes more restrictive intrastate requirements or regulations
on, or which prohibits—
"(A) the use of telephone facsimile machines or other
electronic devices to send unsolicited advertisements;
"(B) the use of automatic telephone dialing systems;
"(C) the use of artificial or prerecorded voice messages; or
"(D) the making of telephone solicitations.
"(2) STATE USE OF DATABASES.—If, pursuant to subsection (cX3),

the Commission requires the establishment of a single national
database of telephone numbers of subscribers who object to
receiving telephone solicitations, a State or local authority may
not, in its regulation of telephone solicitations, require the use
of any database, list, or listing system that does not include the
part of such single national datebase that relates to such State.
'\f) ACTIONS BY STATES.—

"(1) AUTHORITY OF STATES.—Whenever the attorney general of
a State, or an official or agency designated by a State, has
reason to believe that any person has engaged or is engaging in
a pattern or practice of telephone calls or other transmissions to
residents of that State in violation of this section or the regulations prescribed under this section, the State may bring a civil
action on behalf of its residents to enjoin such calls, an action to
recover for actual monetary loss or receive $500 in damages for
each violation, or both such actions. If the court finds the
defendant willfully or knowingly violated such regulations, the
court may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the award to

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991

105 STAT. 2401

an amount equal to not more than 3 times the amount available
under the preceding sentence.
"(2) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF FEDERAL COURTS.—The district
courts of the United States, the United States courts of any
territory, and the District Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all
civil actions brought under this subsection. Upon proper application, such courts shall also have jurisdiction to issue writs
of mandamus, or orders affording like relief, commanding the
defendant to comply with the provisions of this section or
regulations prescribed under this section, including the requirement that the defendant take such action as is necessary to
remove the danger of such violation. Upon a proper showing, a
permanent or temporary injunction or restraining order shall
be granted without bond.
"(3) RIGHTS OF COMMISSION.—The State shall serve prior written notice of any such civil action upon the Commission and
provide the Commission with a copy of its complaint, except in
any case where such prior notice is not feasible, in which case
the State shall serve such notice immediately upon instituting
such action. The Commission shall have the right (A) to intervene in the action, (B) upon so intervening, to be heard on all
matters arising therein, and (C) to file petitions for appeal.
"(4) VENUE; SERVICE OF PROCESS.—Any civil action brought
under this subsection in a district court of the United States
may be brought in the district wherein the defendant is found
or is an inhabitant or transacts business or wherein the violation occurred or is occurring, and process in such cases may be
served in any district in which the defendant is an inhabitant or
where the defendant may be found.
"(5) INVESTIGATORY POWERS.—For purposes of bringing any

civil action under this subsection, nothing in this section shall
prevent the attorney general of a State, or an official or agency
designated by a State, from exercising the powers conferred on
the attorney general or such official by the laws of such State to
conduct investigations or to administer oaths or affirmations or
to compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of
documentary and other evidence,
"(6) EFFECT ON STATE COURT PROCEEDINGS.—Nothing contained

in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit an authorized
State official from proceeding in State court on the basis of an
alleged violation of any general civil or criminal statute of such
State.
"(7) LIMITATION.—Whenever the Commission has instituted a
civil action for violation of regulations prescribed under this
section, no State may, during the pendency of such action
instituted by the Commission, subsequently institute a civil
action against any defendant named in the Commission's complaint for any violation as alleged in the Commission's complaint.
"(8) DEFINITION.—As used in this subsection, the term 'attorney general' means the chief legal officer of a State.",
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 2(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 152(b)) is amended by striking "Except as
provided" and all that follows through "and subject to the provisions" and inserting "Except as provided in sections 223 through
227, inclusive, and subject to the provisions".

105 STAT. 2402
47 u s e 227 note.

PUBLIC LAW 102-243—DEC. 20, 1991
(c) D E A D U N E FOR REGULATIONS; EFFECTIVE D A T E . —

(1) REGULATIONS.—The Federsil Communications Commission
shall prescribe regulations to implement the amendments made
by this section not later than 9 months after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The requirements of section 228 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (as added by this section), other
than the authority to prescribe regulations, shall take effect one
year after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 4. AM RADIO SERVICE.

47 use 331.

Reports.

Section 331 of the Communications Act of 1934 is amended—
(1) in the heading of such section, by inserting "AND AM RADIO
STATIONS" after "TELEVISION STATIONS";
(2) by inserting "(a) VERY HIGH FREQUENCY STATIONS.—" after
"SEC. 331."; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(b) AM RADIO STATIONS.—It shall be the policy of the Commission, in any case in which the licensee of an existing AM daylimeonly station located in a community with a population of more than
100,000 persons that lacks a locsd full-time aural station licensed to
that community and that is located within a Class I station primary
service area notifies the Commission that such licensee seeks to
provide full-time service, to ensure that such a licensee is able to
place a principal community contour signal over its entire community of license 24 hours a day, if technically feasible. The Commission shall report to the appropriate committees of Congress within
30 days after the date of enactment of this Act on how it intends to
meet this policy goal.".
Approved December 20, 1991.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY—S. 1462:
SENATE REPORTS: No. 102-178 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 137 (1991):
Nov. 7, considered and passed Senate.
Nov. 26, considered and passed House, amended.
Nov. 27, Senate concurred in House amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 27 (1991):
Dec. 20, Presidential statement.

