TITLE THREE EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS , RECORDS AND WAGES
CHAPTER ONE
INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT
Article 35 Subject to the provisions of Article 2 , the employment contract shall be written in duplicate ,
one copy handed to the worker , and the other to the employer . Should there not be a written
contract , all conditions thereof may be established by all legal means of evidence .

Article 36 The employment contract shall determine in particular the date of conclusion thereof , the
date of commencement of work , the type , location and duration thereof , should it be of a
determined period , as well as the amount of the wage .

Article 37 As amended by Federal Law no . 12 dated 29/10/1986 :

The worker may be employed for a probation period not exceeding six months where the
employer may terminate the services of the worker without notification or end of service gratuity
. The worker may not employed by the same employer for more than one probation period .
Should the worker successfully completes the probation period and pursues in his job , the said
period shall be deemed as a part of the service period .

Article 38 The employment contract shall be for a determined or an undetermined term . Should it be
for a determined term , it may not exceed four years . Such contract may be renewed by
mutual agreement of the parties for one or more similar or shorter terms .

Should the contract be renewed , the new term ( s ) shall be deemed an extension of the
original term and shall be added thereto upon the calculation of the total service period of the
worker .

Article 39 The employment contract shall be deemed of an undetermined term since the establishment

thereof in any of the following cases :
1 - If it is not made in writing .

2 - If it is concluded for an undetermined term .
3 - If it is made in writing and concluded for a determined  term , and the parties continue

to apply it after the expiry thereof without a written agreement between them .

4 - If it is concluded for a specific job with undetermined term , or which is recurrent by
nature , and the contract continues after the completion of the agreed job .

Article 40 Should the parties pursue the application of the contract after the expiry of the original period
thereof or the end of the agreed job without an explicit agreement , the original contract shall

be deemed implicitly extended under the same conditions mentioned therein with the exception
of the term .

Article 41 Should the employer subcontract a third party for the performance of any of the original tasks
or a part thereof , the latter shall be solely liable for the rights of the workers thereof carrying
out such subcontracted task in pursuance of the provisions hereof .

CHAPTER TWO

PROFESSIONAL TRAINING CONTRACT
Article 42 The professional training contract is the contract whereby the owner of the establishment
undertakes to give a complete professional training that is consistent with the standards of the
profession to a third party having completed at least twelve years of age . The latter shall , in
turn , undertake to work during the training period for the employer in accordance with the

condition and duration agreed upon . The training contract shall be in writing , otherwise it shall
be deemed void . The employer or the trainer shall enjoy the sufficient qualifications and
expertise in the relevant profession or craft for which the training is made . Furthermore , the
firm must itself meet the technical conditions and capacities necessary for the provision of such
training on the profession or craft .

Article 43 The trainee having reached the maturity age shall conclude the contract by himself .

Whoever is under eighteen years of age may not enter into a direct contract with the employer
for the training . The trainee shall be represented by the parent , legal trustee or guardian
thereof .

Article 44 1 - The training contract shall be made in three copies at least , one copy is deposited with
the competent labor department for registration and authentication . Each party shall keep an
authenticated copy thereof .

2 - Should the training contract to be authenticated contain a provision that contradicts the
law , the regulations executive decisions issued in application of the provisions thereof , the
competent labor department may request that the contracting parties delete such breach .

3 - Should the competent labor department not express any observation or objection within a
period of three months from the deposition of the training contract therewith , the contract shall
be deemed duly authenticated as of the date of the deposition thereof .

Article 45 The training contract shall include particulars regarding the identity of the contracting parties

or the representatives thereof , as the case may be , the method of training , the duration ,
phases and subject of the training .

Article 46 The employer shall grant the trainee sufficient time to receive the theoretical training . He
must train the worker on the profession standards and the skills for which he is recruited and
such for the period set in the contract , and must grant the trainee a certificate upon the
completion of each phase of training in accordance with the provisions set forth in the present
Chapter , and a final certificate at the end of the training period . Such certificate may be
authenticated by the competent labor department in accordance with the principles and
procedures determined by virtue of a decision issued by the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs
.

Article 47 The worker may undertake in the training contract to work subsequent to the completion of
the training period for the employer or in the establishment where the training took place and
such for a period not exceeding twice the training period . Similarly , the employer may

undertake in the training contract to employ the worker subsequent to the completion of the
training period .

Article 48 Payable wages for every phase of training shall be determined in the training contract . Such
wages paid in the last phase must not be less than the minimum set for a similar work , and
shall under no circumstances be determined based on the piece or the production .

Article 49 -

The trainee whose age is less than eighteen years old shall undergo a medical examination
to assess the health condition and capacity thereof to carry out the tasks of the profession for
which a training is to be given , and such prior to the commencement of the training thereof .

Should such profession require special physical and heath conditions , the medical report shall
mention the meeting by the training candidate of such conditions , being physical or
psychological .

Article 50 The Minister of Labor shall , by a decision therefrom , regulate the training of professions
and crafts that require training , and determine the duration of such training for the professions
and crafts , the theoretical and practical programs , the conditions of examination and the
certificate granted upon the completion of the training period .
The decisions of the Minister in this regard shall be issued after the consultation of the

pertinent public institutions . In all cases , the Minister may nominate one or more experts in
the affairs of the profession or craft for which a training is to be regulated in order to advise
him thereon .

Article 51 The Minister of Labor may decide to establish centers for professional training , whether
independently or in cooperation with the professional or philanthropic , national , foreign or
international entities . The decision issued for the establishment of the center shall determine
the profession for which the training is held , the conditions of admission in the center , the

theoretical and practical programs , the examinations system and the professional certificates
and any other provisions necessary for the good operation of the center .

Article 52 The Minister of Labor and Social Affairs may impose on the establishments , companies and
owners of industrial , professional and crafts entities determined thereby , the acceptance for
employment of a certain number or percentage of trained nationals and such in accordance
with the conditions , situations and terms determined thereby .

Furthermore , the Minister may impose on the establishments , companies , and owners of
industrial , professional and crafts entities determined thereby the acceptance for training
purposes and the completion of the practical expertise the employment therein of a certain

number or percentage of students of industrial and professional institutes and centers , and
such in accordance with the conditions , situations and terms agreed upon with the
administration of the pertinent establishment .

CHAPTER THREE
RECORDS AND FILES
Article 53 As amended by Federal Law no . 12 dated 29/10/1986 :

The employer employing five or more workers shall observe the following :
1 - Keep a personal file for each worker , mentioning the worker's name , profession or

occupation , age , nationality , address , marital status , date of employment , wage and any
adjustment thereto , penalties inflicted thereupon , occupational injuries and diseases sustained
thereby as well as the date of termination of service and reasons thereof .
2 - Prepare for each worker a Leave card deposited with the worker file . Such card shall be
divided into three sections : annual leaves , sick leaves and other leaves . The employer or the
representative thereof shall record on such card the leaves taken by the worker and such for
reference upon the request for any leave .

Article 54 As amended by Federal Law no . 12 dated 29/10/1986 :

The employer employing fifteen or more workers shall keep in every work location or branch
the following records and documents :

1 - Payroll : In which the names of workers are mentioned in accordance with the date of
the employment thereof , as well as the amount of daily , weekly or monthly wage , fringe
benefits , or the wage by peace or commission , the days of work and the date of final
termination of work .

2 - Occupational Injuries Record : In which occupational injuries and diseases are recorded ,
and such upon the knowledge thereof .
3 - Basic Work Regulations : It shall contain in particular the daily working hours , the
weekly rest period , holidays , as well as the necessary measures and precautions taken for
the prevention of occupational injuries and fire hazards . Such regulations shall be placed in a
prominent place at the work site . The implementation of such regulations  and the

amendments thereto shall require the approval thereof by the Labor Department and such
within thirty days from the date of submission thereto .
4 - Disciplinary Measures : To be placed in a prominent place at the work site . They shall
include the penalties to be imposed on defaulting workers and the conditions and cases of such
imposition . The implementation of such measures and the amendments thereto shall require
the approval thereof by the Labor Department and such within thirty days from the date of the
submission thereof .

CHAPTER FOUR
WAGES
Article 55 Wages shall be paid on a working day and at the work site , in the national currency of the
State .

Article 56 Workers employed in return for an annual or a monthly wage shall be paid at least once per
month . All other workers shall be paid at least once every fortnight .

Article 57 The daily wage of workers employed on the basis of the piece shall be calculated as the

equivalent of the average daily wage received by the worker for the effective working days
during the six months that precede the termination of the service .

Article 58 The payment to the workers of the wage due thereto , regardless of the value or nature
thereof , may only be evidenced in writing or by means of admission or oath . Every agreement
made in contrary thereto , even if made prior to the coming into force of the present Law , shall
be deemed void .

Article 59 The worker may not be required to purchase food or other goods from certain stores or from

the products of the owner .

Article 60 No sum may be deducted from the wage of the worker in return for special rights unless in
the following cases :
a - The recovery of any advances or sums paid to the worker in excess of his entitlements ,

provided that the deducted sum does not exceed in such case 10 % of the periodical wage of
the worker .
b - Installments legally payable by the workers from the wages thereof such as the social

security and insurance systems .

c - Contributions of the worker in the saving fund or loans due thereto .
d - Installments of any social project or any other privileges or services granted by the
employer and approved by the Labor Department .

e - Fines imposed on the worker for any breaches perpetrated thereby .
f - Every debt paid in application of a judicial ruling , provided that the sum deducted in
application of the ruling does not exceed one quarter of the wage due to the worker . Should
there be numerous debts or debtors , the maximum deduction shall be equal to half the wage ,
and the sums required for retention shall be proportionally distributed among the beneficiaries
after the payment of the legal alimony debt at the rate of one quarter of the wage .

Article 61 As amended by Federal Law no . 12 dated 29/10/1986 :

Should the worker cause the loss , damage or destruction of tools , machines , products or
materials owned by the employer or under the custody thereof , and such due to a default or

breach by the worker of the instructions of the employer , the latter may deduct from the wage
of the worker the necessary sum for the repair or restoration thereof , provided that the sums
deducted for such purpose do not exceed the wage of five days every month . The employer
may request the competent court via the competent labor department the permission to deduct
a longer sum should the worker have money or another source of income .

Article 62 The employer may not transfer a worker paid on a monthly basis to the corps of daily

workers , or the corps of workers paid on a weekly , hourly or by piece basis , and such
without a written consent therefrom .

Article 63 By virtue of a decree - law issued upon the proposal of the Minister of Labor and Social
Affairs and the consent of the Cabinet , the minimum wage and cost - of - living index shall be
determined either in general or for a particular area or a particular profession .
The Minister shall submit his proposal to determine or reconsider the minimum wages upon
the consultation of the competent authorities and the professional entities of the employers and

workers , if any , and based on the studies and tables of fluctuation of the cost - of - living set
by the competent authorities in the State , in view of ensuring that the minimum limits are
sufficient to fulfill the basic requirements of the workers and guarantee the livelihood thereof .

Article 64 The minimum wages or adjustments thereon shall enter into effect as of the date of

publication of the determining decree thereof in the Official Gazette .

