PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCr. 5, 1992

CABLE TELEVISION CONSUMER
PROTECTION AND COMPETITION ACT OF
1992

,4-19o - W (*451

106 STAT. 1460

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-- CT. 5, 1992

Public Law 102-385
102d Congress

An Act .
0ct. 5,1992
r

I 121
Cable Television
Consumer
Protection and
Competition Act
of 199a2

Business and
industry.
47 USC 609 note.
47 USC 521 note.

To amend the Communic.tiona Ad of 1934 to provide increased consumer protection
and to promote increased competition in the cable television and related mareta,
and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congressassembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TTVLE

This Act may be cited as the 'Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992?.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; POLICY; DEFINITIONS.

(a) FINDNOs.-The Congress finds and declares the following.
(1) Pursuant to the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984, rates for cable television services have been deregulated
in approximately 97 percent of all franchises since December
29, 1986. Since rate deregulation, monthly rates for the lowest
priced basic cable service have increased by 40 percent or
more for 28 percent of cable television subscribers. Although
the average number of basic channels has increased from about
24 to 30 average monthly rates have increased by 29 percent
during the same period. The average monthly cable rate has
increased almost 3 times as much as the Consumer Price Index
since rate deregulation.
(2) For a variety of reasons, including local franchising
requirements and the extraordinary expense of constructing
more than one cable television system to serve a particular
geographic area, most cable television subscribers have no
opportunity to select between competing cable systems. Without
the presence of another multichannel video programming distributor, a cable system faces no local competition. The result
is undue market power for the cable operator as compared
to that of consumers and video programmers.
(3) There has been a substantial increase in the penetration
of cable television systems over the past decade. Nearly
56,000,000 households, over 60 percent of the households with
televisions, subscribe to cable television and this percentage
is almost certain to increase. As a result of this growth, the
cable television industry has become a dominant nationwide
video medium.

(4) The cable industry has become highly concentrated.

The potential effects of such concentration are barriers to entry

for new programmers and a reduction in the number of media

voices available to consumers.
(5) The cable industry has become vertically integrated;
cable operators and cable programmers often have common
ownership. As a result, cable operators have the incentive and
ability to favor their affiliated programmers. This could make
it more difficult for noncable-affiliated programmers to secure

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1461

carriage on cable systems. Vertically integrated program suppliers also have the incentive and ability to favor their affiliated
cable operators over nonaffiliated cable operators and programming distributors using other technologies.
(6) There is a substantial governmental and First Amendment interest in promoting a diversity of views provided
through multiple technology media.
(7) There is a substantial governmental and First Amendment interest in ensuring that cable subscribers have access
to local noncommercial educational stations which Congress
has authorized, as expressed in section 396(aX5) of the Communications Act of 1934. The distribution of unique noncommercial, educational programming services advances that
interest.
(8) The Federal Government has a substantial interest
in making all nonduplicative local public television services
available on cable systems because(A-) public television provides educational and informational programming to the Nation's citizens, thereby
advancing the Government's compelling interest in educating its citizens;
(B) public television is a local community institution,
supported through local tax dollars and voluntary citizen
contributions in excess of $10,800,000,000 since 1972, that
provides public service programming that is responsive
to the needs and interests of the local community;-,
(C) the Federal Government, in recognition of public
television's integral role in serving the educational and
informational needs of local communities, has invested
more than $3,000,000,000 in public broadcasting since
1969; and
(D) absent carriage requirements there is a substantial
likelihood that citizens, who have supported local public
television services, will be deprived of those services.
(9) The Federal Government has a substantial interest
in having cable systems carry the signals of local commercial
television stations because the carriage of such signals is necessary to serve the goals contained in section 307(b) of the
Communications Act of 1934 of providing a fair, efficient, and
equitable distribution of broadcast services.
(10) A primary objective and benefit of our Nation's system
of regulation of television broadcasting is the local origination
of programming. There is a substantial governmental interest
in ensuring its continuation.
(11) Broadcast television stations continue to be an important source of local news and public affairs programming and
other local broadcast services critical to an informed electorate.
(12) Broadcast television programming is supported by revenues generated from advertising broadcast over stations. Such
programming is otherwise free to those who own television
sets and do not require cable transmission to receive broadcast
signals. There is a substantial governmental interest in promoting the continued availability of such free television programming, especially for viewers who are unable to afford other
means of receiving programming.

106 STAT. 1462

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992
(13) As a result of the growth of cable television, there
has been a marked shift in market share from broadcast television to cable television services.
(14) Cable television systems and broadcast television stations increasingly compete for television advertising revenues.
As the proportion of households subscribing to cable television
increases, proportionately more advertising revenues will be
reallocated from broadcast to cable television systems.
(15) A cable television system which carries the signal
of a local television broadcaster is assisting the broadcaster
to increase its viewership, and thereby attract additional
advertising revenues that otherwise might be earned by the
cable system operator. As a result, there is an economic incentive for cable systems to terminate the retransmission of the
broadcast signal, refuse to carry new signals, or reposition
a broadcast signal to a disadvantageous channel position. There
is a substantial likelihood that absent the reimposition of such
a requirement, additional local broadcast signals will be deleted,
repositioned, or not carried.
(16) As a result of the economic incentive that cable systems
have to delete, reposition, or not carry local broadcast signals,
coupled with the absence of a requirement that such systems
carry local broadcast signals, the economic viability of free
local broadcast television and its ability to originate quality
local programming will be seriously jeopardized.
(17) Consumers who subscribe to cable television often
do so to obtain local broadcast signals which they otherwise
would not be able to receive, or to obtain improved signals.
Most subscribers to cable television systems do not or cannot
maintain antennas to receive broadcast television services, do
not have input selector switches to convert from a cable to
antenna reception system, or cannot otherwise receive broadcast television services. The regulatory system created by the
Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 was premised upon
the continued existence of mandatory carriage obligations for
cable systems, ensuring that local stations would be protected
from anticompetitive conduct by cable systems.
(18) Cable television systems often are the single most
efficient distribution system for television programming. A Government mandate for a substantial societal investment in alternative distribution systems for cable subscribers, such as the
'A/B" input selector antenna system, is not an enduring or
feasible method of distribution and is not in the public interest.
(19) At the same time, broadcast programming that is
carried remains the most popular programming on cable systems, and a substantial portion of the benefits for which consumers pay cable systems is derived from carriage of the signals
of network affiliates, independent television stations, and public
television stations. Also cable programming placed on channels
adjacent to popular off-the-air signals obtains a larger audience
than on other channel positions. Cable systems, therefore
obtain great benefits from local broadcast signals which, until
now, they have been able to obtain without the consent of
the broadcaster or any copyright liability. This has resulted
in an effective subsidy of the development of cable systems
by local broadcasters. While at one time, when cable systems
did not attempt to compete with local broadcasters for program-

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1463

ming, audience, and advertising, this subsidy may have been
appropriate, it is so no longer and results in a competitive
imbalance between the 2 industries.
(20) The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, in
its amendments to the Communications Act of 1934, limited
the regulatory authority of franchising authorities over cable
operators. Franchising authorities are finding it difficult under
the current regulatory scheme to deny renewals to cable systems that are not adequately serving cable subscribers.
(21) Cable systems should be encouraged to carry lowpower television stations licensed to the communities served
by those systems where the low-power station creates and
broadcasts, as a substantial part of its programming day, local
programming.
(b) STATEMENT OF Poucy.-It is the policy of the Congress
in this Act to(1) promote the availability to the public of a diversity
of views and information through cable television and other
video distribution media;
(2) rely on the marketplace, to the maximum extent feasible, to achieve that availability;,
(3) ensure that cable operators continue to expand, where
economically justified, their capacity and the programs offered
over their cable systems;
(4) where cable television systems are not subject to effective competition, ensure that consumer interests are protected
in receipt of cable service; and
(5) ensure that cable television operators do not have undue
market power vis-a-vis video programmers and consumers.
(C) DEFiNITTONs.-Sectjon 602 of the Communications Act of
47 USC 522
1934 (47 U.S.C. 531) is amended(1) by redesignating paragraph (16) as paragraph (19);
(2) by striking "and' at the end of paragraph (15);
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (11) through (15) as paragraphs (13) through (17), respectively;
(4) by .redesignating paragraphs (1) through (10) as paragraphs (2) through (11), respectively;
(5) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated)
the following new paragraph:
'(1) the term 'activated channels' means those channels
engineered at the headend of a cable system for the provision
of services generally available to residential subscribers of the
cable system, regardless of whether such services actually are
provided, including any channel designated for public, educational, or governmental use;";
(6) by inserting after paragraph (11) (as so redesignated)
the following new paragraph:
"(12) the term 'multichannel video programming distributor' means a person such as, but not limited to, a cable operator,
a multichannel multipoint distribution service, a direct broadcast satellite service, or a television receive-only satellite program distributor, who makes available for purchase, by subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming,"; and
(7) by inserting after paragraph (17) (as so redesignated)
the following new paragraph:

106 STAT. 1464

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--Or. 5, 1992

"(18) the term 'usable activated channels' means activated
channels of a cable system, except those channels whose use
for the distribution of broadcast signals would conflict with
technical and safety regulations as determined by the Commission; and".
SEC. 3. REGULATION OF RATES.
(a) AMENDMENT.-Section 623 of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 543) is amended to read as follows:
bSEC. 623. REGULATION OF RATES.
'(a) COMPETrMON PREFERENCE; LOCAL AND FEDERAL RECGUATION.'(1) IN GENERAL--No Federal agency or State may regulate
the rates for the provision of cable service except to the extent
provided under this section and section 612. Any franchising
authority may regulate the rates for the provision of cable
service, or any other communications service provided over
a cable system to cable subscribers, but only to the extent
provided under this section. No Federal agency, State, or franchising authority may regulate the rates for cable service of
a cable system that is owned or operated by a local government
or franchising authority within whose jurisdiction that cable
system is located and that is the only cable system located
within such jurisdiction.
"(2) PREFERENCE FOR COMPETITION.-If the Commission
finds that a cable system is subject to effective competition,
the rates for the provision of cable service by such system
shall not be subject to regulation by the Commission or by
a State or franchising authority under this section. If the Commission finds that a cable system is not subject to effective
competition"(A) the rates for the provision of basic cable service
shall be subject to regulation by a franchising authority,
or by the Commission if the Commission exercises jurisdiction pursuant to paragraph (6), in accordance with the
regulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection
(b); and
"(B) the rates for cable programming services shall
be subject to regulation by the Commission under subsection (c).
"(3) QUALIFICATION OF FRANCHISING AUTHORITY.-A franchising authority that seeks to exercise the regulatory jurisdiction permitted under paragraph (2XA) shall file with the Commission a written certification that"(A) the franchising authority will adopt and administer regulations with respect to the rates subject to regulation under this section that are consistent with the regulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection (b);
"(3) the franchising authority has the legal authority
to adopt, and the personnel to administer, such regulations;
and
'(C) procedural laws and regulations applicable to rate
regulation proceedings by such authority provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested
parties.
"(4) APPROVAL BY COMMISSION.-A certification filed by a
franchising authority under paragraph (3) shall be effective

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCr. 5, 1992

10-6 STAT. 1465

30 days after the date on which it is filed unless the Commission
finds, after notice to the authority and a reasonable opportunity
for the authority to comment, that'(A) the franchising authority has adopted or is administering regulations with respect to the rates subject to
regulation under this section that are not consistent with
the regulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection (b);
'(B) the franchising authority does not have the legal
authority to adopt, or the personnel to administer, such
regulations; or
'(C) procedural laws and regulations applicable to rate
regulation proceedings by such authority do not provide
a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views
of interested parties.
If the Commission disapproves a franchising authority's certification, the Commission shall notify the franchising authority
of any revisions or modifications necessary to obtain approval.
"(5) REVOCATION OF JURSDICTION.--Upon petition by a
cable operator or other interested party, the Commission shall
review the regulation of cable system rates by a franchising
authority under this subsection. A copy of the petition shall
be provided to the franchising authority by the person filing
the petition. If the Commission finds that the franchising
authority has acted inconsistently with the requirements of
this subsection, the Commission shall grant appropriate relief.
If the Commission, after the franchising authority has had
a reasonable opportunity to comment, determines that the State
and local laws and regulations are not in conformance with
the regulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection
(b), the Commission shall revoke the jurisdiction of such authority.
"(6) EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION BY COMMISSION.-If the
Commission disapproves a franchising authority's certification
under paragraph (4), or revokes such authority's jurisdiction
under paragraph <5), the Commission shall exercise the franchising authority's regulatory jurisdiction under paragraph
(2XA) until the franchising authority has qualified to exercise
that jurisdiction by filing a new certification that meets the
requirements of paragraph (3). Such new certification shall
be effective upon approval by the Commission. The Commission
shall act to approve or disapprove any such new certification
within 90 days after the date it is filed.
"(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF BASIC SERVICE TIER RATE REGULATIONS."(1) COMMISSION OBLIGATION TO SUBSCRIBERS.-The Commission shall, by regulation, ensure that the rates for the
basic service tier are reasonable. Such regulations shall be
designed to achieve the goal of protecting subscribers of any
cable system that is not subject to effective competition from
rates for the basic service tier that exceed the rates that would
be charged for the basic service tier if such cable system were
subject to effective competition.
'(2) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.-Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, the Commission shall prescribe,
and periodically thereafter revise, regulations to carry out its

106 STAT. 1466

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

obligations under paragraph (1). In prescribing such regulations, the Commission"(A) shall seek to reduce the administrative burdens
on subscribers, cable operators, franchising authorities, and
the Commission;
"(B) may adopt formulas or other mechanisms and
procedures in complying with the requirements of subparagraph (A), and
'(C) shall take into account the following factors:
'(i) the rates for cable systems, if any, that are
subject to effective competition;
"(ii) the direct costs (if any) of obtaining, transmitting, and otherwise providing signals carried on the
basic service tier, including signals and services carried
on the basic service tier pursuant to paragraph (7)(B),
and changes in such costs;
'(iii) only such portion of the joint and common
costs (if any) of obtaining, transmitting, and otherwise
providing such signals as is determined, in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the Commission, to be
reasonably and properly allocable to the basic service
tier, and changes in such costs;
'(iv) the revenues (if any) received by a cable
operator from advertising from programming that is
carried as part of the basic service tier or from other
consideration obtained in connection with the basic
service tier;
"(v) the reasonably and properly allccable portion
of any amount assessed as a franchise fee, tax, or
charge of any kind imposed by any State or local
authority on the transactions between cable operators
and cable subscribers or any other fee, tax, or assessment of general applicability imposed by a governmental entity applied against cable operators or cable
subscribers;
"(vi) any amount required, in accordance with
paragraph (4), to satisfy franchise requirements to support piiblic, educational, or governmental channels or
the use of such channels or any other services required
under the franchise; and
"(vii) a reasonable profit, as defined by the Commission consistent with the Commission's obligations
to subscribers under paragraph (1).
"(3) EQUTPMENT.-The regulations prescribed by the Commission under this subsection shall include standards to establish, on the basis of actual cost, the price or rate for"(A) installation and lease of the equipment used by
subscribers to receive the basic service tier, including a
converter box and a remote control unit and, if requested
by the subscriber, such addressable converter box or other
equipment as is required to access programming described
in paragraph (8); and
"(B) installation and monthly use of connections for
additional television receivers.
"(4) COSTS OF FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.--The regulations
prescribed by the Commission under this subsection shall
include standards to identify costs attributable to satisfying

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1467

franchise requirements to support public, educational and governmental channels or the use of such channels or any other
services required under the franchise.
"(5) IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT.-The regulations
prescribed by the Commission under this subsection shall
include additional standards, guidelines, and procedures concerning the implementation and enforcement of such regulations, which shall include"(A) procedures by which cable operators may implement and franchising authorities may enforce the regulations prescribed by the Commission under this subsection;
"(B) procedures for the expeditious resolution of disputes between cable operators and franchising authorities
concerning the administration of such regulations;
'(C) standards and procedures to prevent unreasonable
charges for changes in the subscriber's selection of services
or equipment subject to regulation under this section, which
standards shall require that charges for changing the service tier selected shall be based on the cost of such change
and shall not exceed nominal amounts when the system's
configuration permits changes in service tier selection to
be effected solely by coded entry on a computer terminal
or by other similarly simple method; and
"(D) standards and procedures to assure that subscribers receive notice of the availability of the basic service
tier required under this section.
"(6) NoTIcE.-The procedures prescribed by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (5XA) shall require a cable operator
to provide 30 days' advance notice to a franchising authority
of any increase proposed in the price to be charged for the
basic service tier.
"(7) COMPONENTS OF BASIC TIER SUBJECT TO RATE REGULATION.i(A) MINIMUN CONTENTS.-Each cable operator of a
cable system shall provide its subscribers a separately
available basic service tier to which subscription is required
for access to any other tier of service. Such basic service
tier shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:
"(i) All signals carried in fulfillment of the requirements of sections 614 and 615.
"(ii) Any public, educational, and governmental
access programming required by the franchise of the
cable system to be provided to subscribers.
"(iii) Any signal of any television broadcast station
that is provided by the cable operator to any subscriber,
except a signal which is secondarily transmitted by
a satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such
station.
i(B) PERMITTED ADDITIONS TO BASIC TIER--A cable
operator may add additional video programming signals
or services to the basic service tier. Any such additional
signals or services provided on the basic service tier shall
be provided to subscribers at rates determined under the
regulations prescribed by the Commission under this subsection.
"(8) BUY-THROUGH OF OTHER TIERS PROHIBITED.-

106 STAT. 1468

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

(A) PRomHBroN.-A cable operator may not require
the subscription to any tier other than the basic service
tier required by paragraph (7) as a condition of access
to video programing.offered
on a per channel or per
program basis. A cable operator may not discriminate
between subscribers to the basic service tier and other
subscribers with regard to the rates charged for video programming offered on a per channel or per program basis.
"(B) ExcEPrnON; LJU TATON.-The prohibition in subparagraph (A) shall not apply to a cable system that, by
reason of the lack of addressable converter boxes or other
technological limitations, does not permit the operator to
offer programming on a per channel or per program basis
in the same manner required by subparagraph (A). This
subparagraph shall not be available to any cable operator
after(i) the technology utilized by the cable system
is modified or improved in a way that eliminates such
technological limitation; or
'(ii) 10 years after the date of enactment of the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, subject to subparagraph (C).
i(C) WAiER-If, in any proceeding initiated at the
request of any cable operator, the Commission determines
that compliance with the requirements of subparagraph
(A) would require the cable operator to increase its rates,
the Commission may, to the extent consistent with the
public interest, grant such cable operator a waiver from
such requirements for such specified period as the Commission determines reasonable and appropriate.
"(c) REGULATION OF UNREASONABLE RATES."(1) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.-Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, the Commission shall, by regulation, establish the following:
'(A) criteria prescribed in accordance with paragraph
(2) for identifying, in individual cases, rates for cable programming services that are unreasonable;
"(B) fair and expeditious procedures for the receipt,
consideration, and resolution of complaints from any subscriber, franchising authority, or other relevant State or
local government entity alleging that a rate for cable programming services charged by a cable operator violates
the critena prescribed under subparagraph (A), which procedures shall include the minimum showing that shall
be required for a complaint to obtain Commission consideration and resolution of whether the rate in question is
unreasonable; and
'(C) the procedures to be used to reduce rates for
cable programming services that are determined by the
Commission to be unreasonable and to refund such portion
of the rates or charges that were paid by subscribers after
the filing of such complaint and that are determined to
be unreasonable.
"(2) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.-In establishing the criteria for determining in individual cases whether rates for

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC.

5, 1992

106 STAT. 14~69

cable programming services are unreasonable under paragraph
(1XA), the Commission shall consider, among other factors"(A) the rates for similarly situated cable systems offering comparable cable programming services, taking into
account similarities in facilities, regulatory and governmental costs, the number of subscribers, and other relevant
factors;
"(B) the rates for cable systems, if any, that are subject
to effective competition;
'(C) the history of the rates for cable programming
services of the system, including the relationship of such
rates to changes in general consumer prices;
"(D) the rates, as a whole, for all the cable programming, cable equipment, and cable services provided by the
system, other than programming provided on a per channel
or per program basis;
"(E) capital and operating costs of the cable system,
including the quality and costs of the customer service
provided by the cable system; and
'(F) the revenues (if any) received by a cable operator
from advertising from programming that is carried as part
of the service for which a rate is being established, and
changes in such revenues, or from other consideration
obtained in connection with the cable programming services
concerned.
"(3) LIMITATION ON COMPLAINTS CONCERNING EXISTING
RATEs.-Except during the 180-day period following the effective date of the regulations prescribed by the Commission under
paragraph (1), the procedures established under subparagraph
(B) of such paragraph shall be available only with respect
to complaints filed within a reasonable period of time following
a change in rates that is initiated after that effective date,
including a change in rates that results from a change in
that system's service tiers.
"(d) UNIFORM RATE STRUCTURE REQUIRED.-A cable operator
shall have a rate structure, for the provision of cable service, that
is uniform throughout the geographic area in which cable service
is provided over its cable system.
'(e) DISCRIMINATION; SERVICES FOR THE HEARING IMPAIRED.Nothing in this title shall be construed as prohibiting any Federal
agency, State, or a franchising authority from"(1) prohibiting discrimination among subscribers and
potential subscribers to cable service, except that no Federal
agency, State, or franchising authority may prohibit a cable
operator from offering reasonable discounts to senior citizens
or other economically disadvantaged group discounts; or
'(2) requiring and regulating the installation or rental of
equipment which facilitates the reception of cable service by
hearing impaired individuals.
"(f) NEGATIVE OPTION BILLING PROHIBITED.-A cable operator
shall not charge a subscriber for any service or equipment that
the subscriber has not affirmatively requested by name. For purposes of this subsection, a subscriber's failure to refuse a cable
operator's proposal to provide such service or equipment shall not
be deemed to be an affirmative request for such service or equipment.

106 STAT. 1470

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

"(g) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.-The Commission shall, by
regulation, require cable operators to file with the Commission
or a franchising authority, as appropriate, within one year after
the date of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992 and annually thereafter, such financial
information as may be needed for purposes of administering and
enforcing this section.
"(h) PREVENTION OF EVASIONS.-Within 180 days after the date
of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, the Commission shall, by regulation, establish standards, guidelines, and procedures to prevent evasions,
including evasions that result from retiering, of the requirements
of this section and shall, thereafter, periodically review and revise
such standards, guidelines, and procedures.
i(i) SMALL SYSTEM BURDENS.-In developing and prescribing
regulations pursuant to this section, the Commission shall design
such regulations to reduce the administrative burdens and cost
of compliance for cable systems that have 1,000 or fewer subscribers.
(j) RATE REGULATION AGREEMENTS.-During the term of an
agreement made before July 1, 1990 by a franchising authority
and a cable operator providing for the regulation of basic cable
service rates, where there was not effective competition under Commission rules in effect on that date, nothing in this section (or
the regulations thereunder) shall abridge the ability of such franchising authority to regulate rates in accordance with such an
agreement.
"(k) REPORTS ON AVERAGE PRICES.-The Commission shall
annually publish statistical reports on the average rates for basic
cable service and other cable programming, and for converter boxes,
remote control units, and other equipment, of"(1) cable systems that the Commission has found are
subject to effective competition under subsection (aX2), compared with
"(2) cable systems that the Commission has found are
not subject to such effective competition.
"(1) DEFINUTIONS.-As used in this sectioni(1) The term 'effective competition' means that"(A) fewer than 30 percent of the households in the
franchise area subscribe to the cable service of a cable
system;
"(B) the franchise area isi(i) served by at least two unaffiliated multichannel video programming distributors each of which
offers comparable video programming to at least 50
percent of the households in the franchise area; and
"(ii) the number of households subscribing to programniing services offered by multichannel video programming distributors other than the largest multichannel video programming distributor exceeds 15 percent of the households in the franchise area; or
'(C) a multichannel video programming distributor
operated by the franchising authority for that franchise
area offers video programming to at least 50 percent of
the households in that franchise area.
"(2) The term 'cable programming service' means any video
programming provided over a cable system, regardless of service
tier, including installation or rental of equipment used for

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1471

the receipt of such video programming, other than (A) video
programming carried on the basic service tier, and (B) video
programming offered on a per channel or per program basis.".
(b) ErECTIVE DATE.-The amendment made by subsection (a) 47 USC 543 note.
shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, except that the authority of the Federal Communications Commission to prescn'be regulations is effective on such date of enactment.
SEC. 4. CARRIAGE OF LOCAL COMMERCIAL TELEVISION SIGNALS.
Part II of title VI of the Communications Act of 1934 is amended
by inserting after section 613 (47 U.S.C. 533) the following new
section:
"SEC. 614 CARRIAGE OF LOCAL COMMERCIAL TELEVISION SIGNALS 47 USC 5S4.
"(a) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS.-Each cable operator shall carry
on the cable system of that operator, the signals of local commercial
television stations and qualified low power stations as provided
by this section. Carriage of additional broadcast television signals
on such system shall be at the discretion of such operator, subject
to section 325(b).
'(b) SIGNALS REQurnD."(1) IN GENERAI---(A) A cable operator of a cable system
with 12 or fewer usable activated channels shall carry the
signals of at least three local commercial television stations,
except that if such a system has 300 or fewer subscribers,
it shall not be subject to any requirements under this section
so long as such system does not delete from carriage by that
system any signal of a broadcast television station.
"(B) A cable operator of a cable system with more than
12 usable activated channels shall carry the signals of local
commercial television stations, up to one-third of the aggregate
number of usable activated channels of such system.
"(2) SELECTION OF SIGNALS.-Whenever the number of local
commercial television stations exceeds the maximum number
of signals a cable system is required to carry under paragraph
(1), the cable operator shall have discretion in selecting which
such stations shall be carried on its cable system, except that"(A) under no circumstances shall a cable operator
carry a qualified low power station in lieu of a local commercial television station; and
"(B) if the cable operator elects to carry an affiliate
of a broadcast network (as such term is defined by the
Commission by regulation), such cable operator shall carry
the affiliate of such broadcast network whose city of license
reference point, as defined in section 76.53 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations (in effect on January 1, 1991),
or any successor regulation thereto, is closest to the principal headend of the cable system.
"(3) CONTENT TO BE CARRIED.-(A) A cable operator shall
carry in its entirety, on the cable system of that operator
the primary video, accompanying audio, and line 21 closes
caption transmission of each of the local commercial television
stations carried on the cable system and, to the extent technically feasible, program-related material carried in the vertical
blanking interval or on subcarriers. Retransmission of other
material in the vertical blanking internal or other nonprogramrelated material (including teletext and other subscription and

106 STAT. 1472

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCT. 5, 1992
advertiser-supported information services) shall be at the discretion of the cable operator. Where appropriate and feasible,
operators may delete signal enhancements, such as ghost-canceling, from the broadcast signal and employ such enhancements at the system headend or headends.
"(B) The cable operator shall carry the entirety of the
program schedule of any television station carried on the cable
system unless carriage of specific programming is prohibited,
and other programming authorized to be substituted, under
section 76.67 or subpart F of part 76 of title 47, Code of
Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 1991), or any
successor regulations thereto.
'(4) SIGNAL QUALITY."(A) NONDEGRADATION; TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS.The signals of local commercial television stations that
a cable operator carries shall be carried without material
degradation. The Commission shall adopt carriage standards to ensure that, to the extent technically feasible, the
quality of signal processing and carriage provided by a
cable system for the carriage of local commercial television
stations will be no less than that provided by the system
for carriage of any other type of signal.
"(B) A.DVANCED TELEVISION.-At such time as the Commission prescribes modifications of the standards for television broadcast signals, the Commission shall initiate a
proceeding to establish any changes in the signal carriage
requirements of cable television systems necessary to
ensure cable carriage of such broadcast signals of local
commercial television stations which have been changed
to conform with such modified standards.
"(5) DUPLICATION NOT REQUIRED.-Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a cable operator shall not be required to carry the
signal of any local commercial television station that substantially duplicates the signal of another local commercial television station which is carried on its cable system, or to carry
the signals of more than one local commercial television station
affiliated with a particular broadcast network (as such term
is defined by regulation). If a cable operator elects to carry
on its cable system a signal which substantially duplicates
the signal of another local commercial television station carried
on the cable system, or to carry on its system the signals
of more than one local commercial television station affiliated
with a particular broadcast network, all such signals shall
be counted toward the number of signals the operator is
required to carry under paragraph (1).
'(6) CHANNEL POSrITONTNG.-Each signal carried in fulfillment of the carriage obligations of a cable operator under
this section shall be carried on the cable system channel nurmber on which the local commercial television station is broadcast
over the air, or on the channel on which it was carried on
July 19, 1985, or on the channel on which it was carried
on January 1, 1992, at the election of the station, or on such
other channel number as is mutually agreed upon by the station
and the cable operator. Any dispute regarding the positioning
of a local commercial television station shall be resolved by
the Commission.

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1473

'(7) SIGNAL AVAILABILTY.-Signals carried in fulfillment
of the requirements of this section shall be provided to every
subscriber of a cable system. Such signals shall be viewable
via cable on all television receivers of a subscriber which are
connected to a cable system by a cable operator or for which
a cable operator provides a connection. If a cable operator
authorizes subscribers to install additional receiver connections,
but does not provide the subscriber with such connections,
or with the equipment and materials for such connections,
the operator shall notify such subscribers of all broadcast stations carried on the cable system which cannot be viewed
via cable without a converter box and shall offer to sell or
lease such a converter box to such subscribers at rates in
accordance with section 623(bX3).
"(8) IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNALS CARRIED.-A cable operator
shall identify, upon request by any person, the signals carried
on its system in fulfillment of the requirements of this section.
"(9) NOTIFICATION.-A cable operator shall provide written
notice to a local commercial television station at least 30 days
prior to either deleting from carriage or repositioning that
station. No deletion or repositioning of a local commercial television station shall occur during a period in which major television ratings services measure the size of audiences of local
television stations. The notification provisions of this paragraph
shall not be used to undermine or evade the channel positioning
or carriage requirements imposed upon cable operators under
this section.
"(10) COMPENSATION FOR CARRIAGE.-A cable operator shall
not accept or request monetary payment or other valuable
consideration in exchange either for carriage of local commercial
television stations in fulfillment of the requirements of this
section or for the channel positioning rights provided to such
stations under this section, except that"(A) any such station may be required to bear the
costs associated with delivering a good quality signal or
a baseband video signal to the principal headend of the
cable system;
"(B) a cable operator may accept payments from stations which would be considered distant signals under section 111 of title 17, United States Code, as indemnification
for any increased copyright liability resulting from carriage
of such signal; and
"(C) a cable operator may continue to accept monetary
payment or other valuable consideration in exchange for
carriage or channel positioning of the signal of any local
commercial television station carried in fulfillment of the
requirements of this section, through, but not beyond, the
date of expiration of an agreement thereon between a cable
operator and a local commercial television station entered
into prior to June 26, 1990.
'(C) Low POWER STATION CARRIAGE OBLIGATION.'(1) REQUIREMENT.-If there are not sufficient signals of
full power local commercial television stations to fill the channels set aside under subsection (b)"(A) a cable operator of a cable system with a capacity
of 35 or fewer usable activated channels shall be required
to carry one qualified low power station; and

106 STAT. 1474

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

"(B) a cable operator of a cable system with a capacity
of more than 35 usable activated channels shall be required
to carry two qualified low power stations.
"(2) USE OF PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, OR GOVERNMENTAL
CHANNELS.-A cable operator required to carry more than one
signal of a qualified low power station under this subsection
may do so, subject to approval by the franchising authority
pursuant to section 611, by placing such additional station
on public, educational, or governmental channels not in use
for their designated purposes.
"(d) REMEDIES."(1) COMPLAINTS BY BROADCAST STATIONS.-Whenever a
local commercial television station believes that a cable operator
has failed to meet its obligations under this section such station
shall notify the operator, in writing, of the alleged failure
and identify its reasons for believing that the cable operator
is obligated to carry the signal of such station or has otherwise
failed to comply with the channel positioning or repositioning
or other' requirements of this section. The cable operator shall,
within 30 days of such written notification, respond in writing
to such notification and either commence to carry the signal
of such station in accordance with the terms reouested or
state its reasons for believing that it is not obligated to carry
such signal or is in compliance with the channel positioning
and repositioning and other requirements of this section. A
local commercial television station that is denied carriage or
channel positioning or repositioning in accordance with this
section by a cable operator may obtain review of such denial
by filing a complaint with the Commission. Such complaint
shall allege the manner in which such cable operator has failed
to meet its obligations and the basis for such allegations.
"(2) OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.-The Commission shall
afford such cable operator an opportunity to present data and
arguments to establish that there has been no failure to meet
its obligations under this section.
"(3) REMEDLAL ACTIONS; DISnISSAL.--Within 120 days after
the date a complaint is filed, the Commission shall determine
whether the cable operator has met its obligations under this
section. If the Commission determines that the cable operator
has failed to meet such obligations, the Commission shall order
the cable operator to reposition the complaining station or,
in the case of an obligation to carry a station, to commence
carriage of the station and to continue such carriage for at
least 12 months. If the Commission determines that the cable
operator has fully met the requirements of this section, it
shall dismiss the complaint.
'(e) INPUT SELECTOR SWITCH RULES ABOLISHED.-No cable
operator shall be required"(1) to provide or make available any input selector switch
as defined in section 76.5(mm) of title 4?, Code of Federal
Regulations, or any comparable device; or
'(2) to provide information to subscribers about input selector switches or comparable devices.
"(f) REGULATIONS BY CONiMISS;ON-.-Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall, following
a rulemaking proceeding, issue regulations implementing the
requirements imposed by this section. Such implementing regula-

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1475

tions shall include necessary revisions to update section 76.51 of
title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
'(g) SALES PRESENTATIONS AND PROGRAM LENGTH COMMERCIALS."(1) CARRIAGE PENDING PROCEEDING.-Pending the outcome
of the proceeding under paragraph (2), nothing in this Act
shall require a cable operator to carry on any tier, or prohibit
a cable operator from carrying on any tier, the signal of any
commercial television station or video programming service that
is predominantly utilized for the transmission of sales presentations or program length commercials.
"(2) PROCEEDING CONCERNING CERTAIN STATIONS.-Within
270 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission, notwithstanding prior proceedings to determine
whether broadcast television stations that are predominantly
utilized for the transmission of sales presentations or program
length commercials are serving the public interest, convenience,
and necessity shall complete a proceeding in accordance with
this paragraph to determine whether broadcast television stations that are predominantly utilized for the transmission of
sales presentations or. program length commercials are serving
the public interest, convenience, and necessity. In conducting
such proceeding, the Commission shall provide appropriate
notice and opportunity for public comment. The Commission
shall consider the viewing of such stations, the level of competing demands for the spectrum allocated to such stations, and
the role of such stations in providing competition to
nonbroadcast services offering similar programming. In the
event that the Commission concludes that one or more of such
stations are serving the public interest, convenience, and necessity, the Commission shall qualify such stations as local commercial television stations for purposes of subsection (a). In
the event that the Commission concludes that one or more
of such stations are not serving the public interest, convenience,
and necessity, the Commission shall allow the licensees of
such stations a reasonable period within which to provide different programming, and shall not deny such stations a renewal
expectancy solely because their programming consisted predominantly of sales presentations or program length commercials.
'(h) DEFINITIONS."(1) LOCAL COMMERCIAL TELEVISION STATION.'(A) IN GENERAL.-For purposes of this section, the
term local commercial television station' means any full
power television broadcast station, other than a qualified
noncommercial educational television station within the
meaning of section 615(1X1), licensed and operating on
a channel regularly assigned to its community by the Commission that, with respect to a particular cable system,
is within the same television market as the cable system.
"(B) EXCLUSIONS.-The term local commercial television station' shall not include'(i) low power television stations, television translator stations, and passive repeaters which operate
pursuant to part 74 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulations thereto;

69.139 O - 92 - 2 (385)

106 STAT. 1476

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC.

5, 1992

'(ii) a television broadcast station that would be
considered a distant signal under section 111 of title
17, United States Code, if such station does not agree
to indemnify the cable operator for any increased copyright liability resulting from carriage on the cable system; or
"(iii) a television broadcast station that does not
deliver to the principal headend of a cable system
either a signal level of -45dBm for UHF signals or
-49dBm for VHF signals at the input terminals of
the signal processing equipment, if such station does
not agree to be responsible for the costs of delivering
to the cable system a signal of good quality or a
baseband video signal.
'(C) MARKET DETERMINATIONS.-(i) For purposes of this
section, a broadcasting station's market shall be determined
in the manner provided in section 73.3555(dX3Xi) of title
47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on May 1,
1991, except that, following a written request, the Commirssion may, with respect to a particular television broadcast
station, include additional communities within its television
market or exclude communities from such station's television market to better effectuate the purposes of this
section. In considering such requests,' the Commission may
determine that particular communities are part of more
than one television market.
"(ii) In considering requests filed pursuant to clause
(i), the Commission shall afford particular attention to
the value of localism by taking into account such factors
as"(I) whether the station, or other stations located
in the same area, have been historically carried on
the cable system or systems within such community,
(II) whether the television station provides coverage or other local service to such community;
"(III) whether any other television station that
is eligible to be carried by a cable system in such
community in fulfillment of the requirements of this
section provides news coverage of issues of concern
to such community or provides carriage or coverage
of sporting and other events of interest to the community; and
'(IV) evidence of viewing patterns in cable and
noncable households within the areas served by the
cable system or systems in such community.
"(iii) A cable operator shall not delete from carriage
the signal of a commercial television station during the
pendency of any proceeding pursuant to this subparagraph.
'(iv) In the rulemaking proceeding required by subsection (f), the Commission shall provide for expedited consideration of requests filed under this subparagraph.
"(2) QUALIFIED LOW POWER STATION.-The term 'qualified
low power station' means any television broadcast station conforming to the rules established for Low Power Television Stations contained in part 74 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, only if-

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC.

5, 1992

106 STAT. 1477

'(A) such station broadcasts for at least the minimum
number of hours of operation required by the Commission
for television broadcast stations under part 73 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations;
'(B) such station meets all obligations and requirements applicable to television broadcast stations under part
73 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, with respect
to the broadcast of nonentertainment programming; programming and rates involving political candidates, election
issues, controversial issues of public importance, editorials
and personal attacks; programming for children; and equal
employment opportunity; and the Commission determmes
that the provision of such programming by such station
would address local news and informational needs which
are not being adequately served by funll power television
broadcast stations because of the geographic distance of
such full power stations from the low power station's community of license;
"(C) such station complies with interference regulations
consistent with its secondary status pursuant to part 74
of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations;
"(D) such station is located no more than 35 miles
from the cable system's headend, and delivers to the principal headend of the cable system an over-the-air signal
of good quality, as determined by the Commission;
"(E) the community of license of such station and the
franchise area of the cable system are both located outside
of the largest 160 Metropolitan Statistical Areas, ranked
by population, as determined by the Office of Management
and Budget on June 30, 1990, and the population of such
community of license on such date did not exceed 35,000;
and
"(F) there is no full power television broadcast station
licensed to any community within the county or other political subdivision (of a State) served by the cable system.
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to change the
secondary status of any low power station as provided in part
74 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on
the date of enactment of this section.".
SEC. 5. CARRIAGE OF NONCOMIJERCIAL STATIONS.

Part II of title VI of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 531 et seq.) is further amended by inserting after section
614 (as added by section 4 of this Act) the following new section:
"SEC. 616. CARRIAGE
VISION.

OF NONCONIIERCIAL

EDUCATIONAL

TELE-

'(a) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS.-In addition to the carriage
requirements set forth in section 614, each cable operator of a
cable system shall carry the signals of qualified noncommercial
educational television stations in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
"(b) REQUIREMENTS TO CARRY QUALIFIED STATIONS.C(1) GENERAL REQUIREMENT TO CARRY EACH QUALIFIED STATION.-Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) and subsection (e),
each cable operator shall carry, on the cable system of that
cable operator, any qualified local noncommercial educational
television station requesting carriage.

47 USC 535.

106 STAT. 1478

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

"(2XA) SYSTEMS WITH 2 OR FEWER CHANNE.-Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a cable operator of a cable system
with 12 or fewer usable activated channels shall be required
to carry the signal of one qualified local noncommercial educational television station; except that a cable operator of such
a system shall comply with subsection (c) and may, in its
discretion, carry the signals of other qualified noncommercial
educational television stations.
"(B) In the case of a cable system described in subparagraph
(A) which operates beyond the presence of any qualified local
noncommercial educational television station'(i) the cable operator shall import and carry on that
system the signal of one qualified noncommercial educational television station;
"(ii) the selection for carriage of such a signal shall
be at the election of the cable operator; and
(iii) in order to satisfy the requirements for carriage
specified in this subsection, the cable operator of the system
shall not be required to remove any other programming
service actually provided to subscribers on March 29, 1990except that such cable operator shall use the first channel
available to satisfy the requirements of this subparagraph.
"(3) SYSTEMS WrrI IS TO 36 CHANNEL.--A) Subject to
subsection (c), a cable operator of a cable system with 13
to 36 usable activated channels"(i) shall carry the signal of at least one qualified
local noncommercial educational television station but shall
not be required to carry the signals of more than three
such stations, and
"(ii) may, in its discretion, carry additional such stations.
"(B) In the case of a cable system described in this paragraph which operates beyond the presence of any qualified
local noncommercial educational television station, the cable
operator shall import and carry on that system the signal
of at least one qualified noncommercial educational television
station to comply with subparagraph (AXi).
"(C) The cable operator of a cable system described in
this paragraph which carries the signal of a qualified local
noncommercial educational station affiiated with a State public
television network shall not be required to carry the signal
of any additional qualified local noncommercial educational television stations affiliated with the same network if the programming of such additional stations is substantially duplicated
by the programming of the qualified local noncommercial educational television station receiving carriage.
"(D) A cable operator of a system described in this paragraph which increases the usable activated channel capacity
of the system to more than 36 channels on or after March
29, 1990, shall, in accordance with the other provisions of
this section, carry the signal of each qualified local noncommercial educational television station requesting carriage,
subject to subsection (e).
"(c) CONTINUED CARRIAGE OF EXISTING STATIONS.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, all cable operators
shall continue to provide carriage to all qualified local noncommercial educational television stations whose signals were car-

PUBLIC LAW 102-38-OCrT

. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 14799

ried on their systems as of March 29, 1990. The requirements
of this subsection may be waived with respect to a particular
cable operator and a particular such station, upon the written
consent of the cable operator and the station.
"(d) PLACEfENT OF ADDITIONAL SIGNAIS.-A cable operator
required to add the signals of qualified local noncommercial educational television stations to a cable system under this section
may do so, subject to approval by the franchising authority pursuant
to section 611, by placing such additional stations on public, educational, or governmental channels not in use for their designated
purposes.
(e) SYSTEMS WITH MORE THAN 36 CHANNELS.-A cable operator of a cable system with a capacity of more than 36 usable
activated channels which is required to carry the signals of three
qualified local noncommercial educational television stations shall
not be required to carry the signals of additional such stations
the programming of which substantially duplicates the programming broadcast by another qualified local noncommercial educational television station requesting carriage. Substantial duplication shall be defined by the Commission in a manner that promotes
access to distinctive noncommercial educational television services.
"(f) WAIVER OF NONDUPLICATION RIGHTS.-A qualified local noncommercial educational television station whose signal is carried
by a cable operator shall not assert any network nonduplication
rights it may have pursuant to section 76.92 of title 47, Code
of Federal Regulations to require the deletion of programs aired
on other qualified locai noncommercial educational television stations whose signals are carried by that cable operator.
'(g) CONDITIONS OF CARRIAGE."(1) CONTENT TO BE CARRIED.-A cable operator shall
retransmit in its entirety the primary video, accompanying
audio, and line 21 closed caption transmission of each qualified
local noncommercial educational television station whose signal
is carried on the cable system, and, to the extent technically
feasible, program-related material carried in the vertical blanking interval, or on subcarriers, that may be necessary for receipt
of programming by handicapped persons or for educational
or language purposes. Retransmission of other material in the
vertical blanking interval or on subcarriers shall be within
the discretion of the cable operator.
"(2) BANDWIDTH AND TECHNICAL QUALITY.-A cable operator
shall provide each qualified local noncommercial educational
television station whose signal is carried in accordance with
this section with bandwidth and technical capacity equivalent
to that provided to commercial television broadcast stations
carried on the cable system and shall carry the signal of each
qualified local noncommercial educational television station
without material degradation.
"(3) CHANGES IN CARRIAGE.-The signal of a qualified local
noncommercial educational television station shall not be repositioned by a cable operator unless the cable operator, at least
30 days in advance of such repositioning, has provided written
notice to the station and all subscribers of the cable system.
For purposes of this paragraph, repositioning includes (A)
assignment of a qualified local noncommercial educational television station to a cable system channel number different from
the cable system channel number to which the station was

106 STAT. 1480

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

assigned as of March 29, 1990, and (B) deletion of the station
from the cable system. The notification provisions of this paragraph shall not be used to undermine or evade the channel
positioning or carriage-requirements imposed upon cable operators under this section.
"(4) GOOD QUALITY SIGNAL REQUIRED.-Notwithstanding
the other provisions of this section, a cable operator shall
not be required to carry the signal of any qualified local noncommercial educational television station which does not deliver
to the cable system's principal headend a signal of good quality
or a baseband video signal, as may be defined by the Commission.
'(5) CHANNEL POSTIONING.-Each signal carried in fulfillment of the carriage obligations of a cable operator under
this section shall be carried on the cable system channel number on which the qualified local noncommercial educational
television station is broadcast over the air, or on the channel
on which it was carried on July 19 1985, at the election
of the station, or on such other channel number as is mutually
agreed upon by the station and the cable operator. Any dispute
regarding the positioning of a qualified local noncommercial
educational television station shall be resolved by the Commission.
"(h) AVAILABILITY OF SIGNALS.-Signals carried in fulfillment
of the carriage obligations of a cable operator under this section
shall be available to every subscriber as part of the cable system's
lowest priced service tier that includes the retransmission of local
commercial television broadcast signals.
"(i) PAYMENT FOR CARRIAGE PROHIBITED."(1) IN GENERAL.-A cable operator shall not accept monetary payment or other valuable consideration in exchange for
carriage of the signal of any qualified local noncommercial
educational television station carried in fulfillment of the
requirements of this section, except that such a station may
be required to bear the cost associated with delivering a good
quality signal or a baseband video signal to the principal
headend of the cable system.
"(2) DISTANT SIGNAL EXCEPeION.-Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a cable operator shall not be required
to add the signal of a qualified local noncommercial educational
television station not already carried under the provision of
subsection (c), where such signal would be considered a distant.
signal for copyright purposes unless such station indemnifies
the cable operator for any increased copyright costs resulting
from carriage of such signal.
"(j) REMEDIES."(1) COMPLAINT.-Whenever a qualified local noncommercial educational television station believes that a cable
operator of a cable system has failed to comply with the signal
carriage requirements of this section the station may fle a
complaint with the Commission. Such complaint shall allege
the manner in which such cable operator has failed to comply
with such requirements and state the basis for such allegations.
"(2) OPPORTUNrm' TO REsPOND.-The Commission shall
afford such cable operator an opportunity to present data,
views, and arguments to establish that the cable operator has
complied with the signal carriage requirements of this section.

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC.

5, 1992

106 STAT. 1481

"(3) REMEDIAL ACTIONS; DISMISSAL.-Within 120 days after
the date a complaint is filed under this subsection, the Commission shall determine whether the cable operator has complied
with the requirements of this section. If the Commission determines that the cable operator has failed to comply with such
requirements, the Commission shall state with particularity
the basis for such findings and order the cable operator to
take such remedial action as is necessary to meet such requirements. If the Commission determines that the cable operator
has fully complied with such requirements, the Commission
shall dismiss the complaint.
"(k) IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNALS.-A cable operator shall identify, upon request by any person, those signals carried in fulfillment
of the requirements of this section.
"(1) DEFINmONS.-For purposes of this section"(1) QUALIFIED NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION
STATION.-The term 'qualified noncommercial educational television station' means any television broadcast station which"(AXi) under the rules and regulations of the Commission in effect on March 29, 1990, is licensed by the Commission as a noncommercial educational television broadcast
station and which is owned and operated by a public
agency, nonprofit foundation, corporation, or association;
and
"(ii) has as its licensee an entity which is eligible
to receive a community service grant, or any successor
grant thereto, from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, or any successor organization thereto, on the basis
of the formula set forth in section 396(kX6)(B); or
"(B) is owned and operated by a municipality and
transmits predominantly noncommercial programs for educational purposes.
Such term includes (I) the translator of any noncommercial
educational television station with five watts or higher power
serving the franchise area, (II) a full-service station or translator if such station or translator is licensed to a channel
reserved for noncommercial educational use pursuant to section
73.606 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor
regulations thereto, and (III) 'such stations and translators
operating on channels not so reserved as the Commission determines are qualified as noncommercial educational stations.
"(2) QUALIFIED LOCAL NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION STATION.-The term 'qualified local noncommercial educational television station' means a qualified noncommercial
educational television station"(A) which is licensed to a principal community whose
reference point, as defined in section 76.53 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on March 29,
1990), or any successor regulations thereto, is within 50
miles of the principal headend of the cable system; or
"(B) whose Grade B service contour, as defined in
section 73.683(a) of such title (as in effect on March 29,
1990), or any successor regulations thereto, encompasses
the principal headend of the cable system.".

106 STAT. 1482

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCT. 5, 1992

SEC. 6. RETRANSMISSION CONSENT FOR CABLE SYSTEM.

Regulations.

Section 325 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
325) is amended(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections
(c) and (d), respectively; and
(2) by inserting immediately after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
(bXl)() Following the date that is one year after the date of
enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, no cable system or other multichannel video
programming distributor shall retransmit the signal of a broadcastmg station, or any part thereof, excepti(A) with the express authority of the originating station;
or
"(B) pursuant to section 614, in the case of a station electing, in accordance with this subsection, to assert the right
to carriage under such section.
"(2) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to'(A) retransmission of the signal of a noncommercial broadcasting station;
(B) retransmission directly to a home satellite antenna
of the signal of a broadcasting station that is not owned or
operated by, or affiliated with, a broadcasting network, if such
signal was retransmitted by a satellite carrier on May 1, 1991;
i(C) retransmission of the signal of a broadcasting station
that is owned or operated by, or affiliated with, a broadcasting
network directly to a home satellite antenna, if the household
receiving the signal is an unserved household; or
"(D) retransmission by a cable operator or other multichannel video programming distributor of the signal of a
superstation if such signal was obtained from a satellite carrier
and the originating station was a superstation on May 1, 1991.
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms 'satellite carrier',
'superstation', and 'unserved household' have the meanings given
those terms, respectively, in section 119(d) of title 17, United States
Code, as in effect on the date of enactment of the Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992.
"(3)(A) Within 45 days after the date of enactment of the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992,
the Commission shall commence a rulemaking proceeding to establish regulations to govern the exercise by television broadcast stations of the right to grant retransmission consent under this subsection and of the right to signal carriage under section 614, and
such other regulations as are necessary to administer the limitations contained in paragraph (2). The Commission shall consider
in such proceeding the impact that the grant of retransmission
consent by television stations may have on the rates for the basic
service tier and shall ensure that the regulations prescribed under
this subsection do not conflict with the Commission's obligation
under section 623(bX1) to ensure that the rates for the basic service
tier are reasonable. Such. rulemaking proceeding shall be completed
within 180 days after the date of enactment of the Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992.
"(B) The regulations required by subparagraph (A) shall require
that television stations, within one year after the date of enactment
of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act
of 1992 and every three years thereafter, make an election between

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1483

the right to grant retransmission consent under this subsection
and the right to signal carriage under section 614. If there is
more than one cable system which services the same geographic
area, a station's election shall apply to all such cable systems.
"(4) If an originating television station elects under paragraph
(3XB) to exercise its right to grant retransmission consent under
this subsection with respect to a cable system, the provisions of
section 614 shall not apply to the carriage of the signal of such
station by such cable system.
"(5) The exercise by a television broadcast station of the right
to grant retransmission consent under this subsection shall not
interfere with or supersede the rights under section 614 or 615
of any station electing to assert the right to signal carriage under
that section.
"(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed as modifying
the compulsory copyright license established in section 111 of title
17, United States Code, or as affecting existing or future video
programming licensing agreements between broadcasting stations
and video programmers.".
SEC. 7. AWARD OF FRANCMHSES; PROMOTION OF COMPE1rTON.

(a) ADDITIONAL COMPEnTITVE FRANCHISES.(1) AMENDMENT.-Section 621(aX1) of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 541(aX1)) is amended by inserting before
the period at the end the following. ; except that a franchising
authority may not grant an exclusive franchise and may not
unreasonably refuse to award an additional competitive franchise. Any applicant whose application for a second franchise
has been denied by a final decision of the franchising authority
may appeal such final decision pursuant to the provisions of
section 635 for failure to comply with this subsection".
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.-Section 635(a) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 555(a)) is amended by
inserting "621(aX1)," after "section".
(b) FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.-Section 621(a) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 541(a)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
"(4) In awarding a franchise, the franchising authority"(A) shall allow the applicant's cable system a reasonable
period of time to become capable of providing cable service
to all households in the franchise area;
"(B) may require adequate assurance that the cable operator will provide adequate public, educational, and governmental
access channel capacity, facilities, or financial support; and
"(C) may require adequate assurance that the cable operator has the financial, technical, or legal qualifications to provide
cable service." .
(c)

MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES

PERMITTED

TO OPERATE

SYS-

TEMS.-Section 621 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
541) is amended(1) by inserting "and subsection (f)" before the comma in
subsection (bX1); and
(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(f) No provision of this ACt shall be construed to'(1) prohibit a local or municipal authority that is also,
or is affiliated with, a franchising authority from operating
as a multichannel video programming distributor in the fran-

106 STAT. 1494

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

chise area, notwithstanding the granting of one or more franchises by such franchising authority; or
"(2) require such local or municipal authority to secure
a franchise to operate as a multichannel video programming
distributor.".
SEC. 8 CONSUMER PROTECTION AND CUSTOMER SERVICE.
Section 632 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 US.C.
552) is amended to read as follows:
'SEC. 632. CONSUMER PROTECTION AND CUSTOMER SERVICE.
"(a) FRANCHISING AUTHORITY ENFORCEMENw.-A franchising
authority may establish and enforce-'(1) customer service requirements of the cable operator,
and
"(2) construction schedules and other construction-related
requirements, including construction-related performance
requirements, of the cable operator.
"(b) COMMISSION STANDARDS.-The Commission shall, within
180 days of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, establish standards by which cable
operators may fulfill their customer service requirements. Such
standards shall include, at a minimum, requirements governing"(1) cable system office hours and telephone availability;
"(2) installations, outages, and service calls; and
"(3) communications between the cable operator and the
subscriber (including standards governing bills and refunds).
"(c) CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE
AGREEMENTS."(1) CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS.-Nothing in this title
shall be construed to prohibit any State or any franchising
authority from enacting or enforcing any consumer protection
law, to the extent not specifically preempted by this title.
"(2) CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENT AGREEMENTS.-Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude a franchising
authority and a cable operator from agreeing to customer service requirements that exceed the standards established by the
Commission under subsection (b). Nothing in this title shall
be construed to prevent the establishment or enforcement of
any municipal law or regulation, or any State law, concerning
customer service that imposes customer service requirements
that exceed the standards set by the Commission under this
section, or that addresses matters not addressed by the standards set by the Commission under this section.".
SEC. 9. LEASED COMWERCIAL ACCESS.
(a) PURPOSE.-Section 612(a) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 532(a)) is amended by inserting 'to promote competition in the delivery of diverse sources of video programming
and" after 'purpose of this section is".
(b) COMMISSION RULES ON MAXIMUM REASONABLE RATES AND
OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS.--Section 612(c) of such Act (47
US.C. 532(c)) is amended(1) in paragraph (1) by inserting "and with rules prescribed
by the Commission under paragraph (4)" after 'purpose of
this sectionS; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
'(4XA) The Commission shall have the authority to-

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1495

"(i) determine the maximum reasonable rates that a cable
operator may establish pursuant to paragraph (1) for commercial use of designated channel capacity, including the rate
charged for the billing of rates to subscribers and for the
collection of revenue from subscribers by the cable operator
for such use;
"(ii) establish reasonable terms and conditions for such
use, including those for billing and collection; and
'(iii) establish procedures for the expedited resolution of
disputes concerning rates or carriage under this sectiont
"(B) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this para- Regulations
graph, the Commission shall establish rules for determining maximum reasonable rates under subparagraph (AXi), for establishing
terms and conditions under subparagraph (AXii), and for providing
procedures under subparagraph (AXiii),".
(c) ACCESS FOR QUAITY MINORITY PROGRAMMING SOURcES AND
QUALIFIED EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMING SOURCES.--Section 612 of
such Act (47 U.S.C. 532) is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new subsection:
"(iXl) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (b) and
(c), a cable operator required by this section to designate channel
capacity for commercial use may use any such channel capacity
for the provision of programming from a qualified minority programming source or from any qualified educational programming source,
whether or not such source is affiliated with the cable operator.
The channel capacity used to provide programming from a qualified
minority programming source or from any qualified educational
programming source pursuant to this subsection may not exceed
33 percent of the channel capacity designated pursuant to this
section. No programming provided over a cable system on July
1, 1990, may qualify as minority programming or educational programming on that cable system under this subsection.
"(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term 'qualified minority
programming source' means a programming source which devotes
substantially all of its programming to coverage of minority viewpoints, or to programming directed at members of minority groups,
and which is over 50 percent minority-owned, as the term 'minority'
is defined in section 309(iX3XCXii).
"(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term 'qualified educational programming source' means a programming source which
devotes substantially all of its programming to educational or
instructional programming that promotes public understanding of
mathematics, the sciences, the humanities, and the arts and has
a documented annual expenditure on programming exceeding
$15,000,000. The annual expenditure on programming means all
annual costs incurred by the programming source to produce or
acquire programs which are scheduled to be televised, and specifically excludes marketing, promotion, satellite transmission and
operational costs, and general administrative costs.
"(4) Nothing in this subsection shall substitute for the requirements to carry qualified noncommercial educational television stations as specified under section 615,".
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.-Paragraph (5) of section 612(b)
of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 532(b)) is amended
to read as follows:

106 STAT. 1486

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC.

5, 1992

"(5) For the purposes of this section, the term 'commercial
use' means the provision of video programming, whether or not
for profit.".
SEC. 10. CHILDRENIS PROTECTION FROM INDECENT PROGRAMIUNG

Regulation
47 USC 531 note.

ON LEASED ACCESS CHANNEL.
(a) AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.--Section 612(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 532(h)) is amended(1) by inserting "or the cable operator' after franchising
authority; and
(2) by adding at the end thereof the following: -This subsection shall permit a cable operator to enforce prospectively
a written and published policy of prohibiting programming
that the cable operator reasonably believes descri
or depicts
sexual or excretory activities or organs in a patently offensive
manner as measured by contemporary community standards.".
(b) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.-Section 612 of the Cominunications Act of 1934 (47 US.C. 532) is amended by inserting after
subsection (i) (as added by section 9(c) of this Act) the following
new subsection:
"ijX1) Within 120 days following the date of the enactment
of this subsection, the Commission shall promulgate regulations
designed to limit the access of children to indecent programming,
as defined by Commission regulations, and which cable operators
have not voluntarily prohibited under subsection (h) by"(A) requiring cable operators to place on a single channel
all indecent programs, as identified by program providers,
intended for carriage on channels designated for commercial
use under this section;
"(B) requiring cable operators to block such single channel
unless the subscriber requests access to such channel in writing;
and
"(C) requiring programmers to inform cable operators if
the program would be indecent as defined by Commission regulations.
"(2) Cable operators shall comply with the regulations promulgated pursuant to paragraph (1).".
(C) PROHIBITS SYSTEM USE.-Within 180 days following the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications
Commission shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary
to enable a cable operator of a cable system to prohibit the use,
on such system, of any channel capacity of any public, educational,
or governmental access facility for any programming which contains
obscene material, sexually explicit conduct, or material soliciting
or promoting unlawful conduct.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.-Section 638 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 558) is amended by striking the
period at the end and inserting the following: "unless the program
involves obscene material.".
SEC. 11. LIMITATIONS ON OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, AND UTILIZATION.

(a) CROSS-OwNERSHIP.-Section 613(a) of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 533(a)) is amended(1) by inserting '(1)" immediately after "(a)"; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
"(2) It shall be unlawful for a cable operator to hold a license
for multichannel multipoint distribution service, or to offer satellite
master antenna television service separate and apart from any

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

1,06 STAT. 1487

franchised cable service, in any portion of the franchise area served
by that cable operator's cable system. The Commission"(A) shall waive the requirements of this paragraph for
all existing multichannel multipoint distribution services and
satellite master antenna television services which are owned
by a cable operator on the date of enactment of this paragraph;
and
i(B) may waive the requirements of this paragraph to
the extent the Commission determines is necessary to ensure
that all significant portions of a franchise area are able to
obtain video programming.".
(b) CLARIFICATION OF LOCAL AUTHORITY To REGULATE OWNER
SHIP.-Section 613(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
533(d)) is amended(1) by striking "any media" and inserting "any other media";
and
(2) by adding at the end thereof the following: 'Nothing
in this section shall be construed to prevent any State or
franchising authority from prohibiting the ownership or control
of a cable system in a jurisdiction by any person (1) because
of such person's ownership or control of any other cable system
in such jurisdiction; or (2) in circumstances in which the State
or franchising authority determines that the acquisition of such
a cable system may eliminate or reduce competition in the
delivery of cable service in such jurisdiction.".
(c) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.-Section 613 of the Communica-

tions Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 533) is amended(1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections
(g) and (h), respectively;-, and
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
(f)(1) In order to enhance effective competition, the Commission
shall, within one year after the date of enactment of the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, conduct a proceeding"(A) to prescribe rules and regulations establishing reasonable limits on the number of cable subscribers a person is
authorized to reach through cable systems owned by such person, or in which such person has an attributable interest;
"(B) to prescribe rules and regulations establishing reasonable limits on the number of channels on a cable system that
can be occupied by a video programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest; and
"(C) to consider the necessity and appropriateness of imposing limitations on the degree to which multichannel video programming distributors may engage in the creation or production
of video programming.
"(2) In prescribing rules and regulations under paragraph (1),
the Commission shall, among other public interest objectives-"(A) ensure that no cable operator or group of cable operators can unfairly impede, either because of the size of any
individual operator or because of joint actions by a group of
operators of sufficient size, the flow of video programming
from the video programmer to the consumer;
"(B) ensure that cable operators affiliated with video programmers do not favor such programmers in determining carriage on their cable systems or do not unreasonably restrict

106 STAT. 1488

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCT. 5, 1992
the flow of the video programming of such programmers to
other video distributors;
i(C) take particular account of the market structure, ownership patterns, and other relationships of the cable television
industry, including the nature and market power of the local
franchise, the joint ownership of cable systems and video programmers, and the various types of non-equity controlling
interests;
"(D) account for any efficiencies and other benefits that
might be gained through increased ownership or control;
"(E) make such rules and regulations reflect the dynamic
nature of the communications marketplace;
i(F) not impose limitations which would bar cable operators
from serving previously unserved rural areas; and
"(G) not impose limitations which would impair the development of diverse and high quality video programming.".

SEC. 12. REGULATION OF CARRIAGE AGREEMENTS

Part II of title VI of the Communications Act of 1934 is amended
by inserting after section 615 (as added by section 5 of this Act)
the following new section:
47 USC 536.

'SEC. 616. REGULATION OF CARRIAGE AGREEMENTS.

"(a) REGULATIONS.-Within one year after the date of enactment
of this section, the Commission shall establish regulations governing
program carriage agreements and related practices between cable
operators or other multichannel video programming distributors
and video programming vendors. Such regulations shall"(1) include provisions designed to prevent a cable operator
or other multichannel video programming distributor from
requiring a financial interest in a program service as a condition
for carriage on one or more of such operator's systems;
"(2) include provisions designed to prohibit a cable operator
or other multichannel video programming distributor from
coercing a video programming vendor to provide, and from
retaliating against such a vendor for failing to provide, exclusive
rights against other multichannel video programming distributors as a condition of carriage on a system;
"(3) contain provisions designed to prevent a multichannel
video programming distributor from engaging in conduct the
effect of which is to unreasonably restrain the ability of an
unaffiliated video programming vendor to compete fairly by
discriminating in video programming distribution on the basis
of affiliation or nonaffiliation of vendors in the selection, terms,
or conditions for carriage of video programming provided by
such vendors;
"(4) provide for expedited review of any complaints made
by a video programming vendor pursuant to this section;
"(5) provide for appropriate penalties and remedies for
violations of this subsection, including carriage; and
"(6) provide penalties to be assessed against any person
filing a frivolous complaint pursuant to this section.
"(b) DEFIITION.-As used in this section, the term 'video programming vendor' means a person engaged in the production, creation, or wholesale distribution of video programming for sale.".

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1489

SEC. 1 SALES OF CABLE SYSTEMS
Part II of title VI of the Communications Act of 1934 is further
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
47 USC 57.
'SEC. 617. SALES OF CABLE SYSEMS.
"(a) 3-YEAR HOLDINa PERIOD REQUIRED.-Except as provided
in this section, no cable operator may sell or otherwise transfer
ownership in a cable system within a 36-month period following
either the acquisition or initial construction of such system by
such operator.
"(b) TREATMENT OF MULTIPLE TRANSFERS.-In the case of a
sale of multiple systems, if the terms of the sale require the buyer
to subsequently transfer ownership of one or more such systems
to one or more third parties, suc transfers shall be considered
a part of the initial transaction.
"(c) ExcEpnoNs.-Subsection (a) shall not apply to'(1) any transfer of ownership interest m any cable system
which is not subject to Federal income tax liability;
"(2) any sale required by operation of any law or any
act of any Federal agency, any State or political subdivision
thereof, or any franchising authority; or
"(3) any sale, assignment, or transfer, to one or more purchasers, assignees, or transferees controlled by, controlling, or
under common control with, the seller, assignor, or transferor.
'(d) WAIVER AUTHORITY.-The Commission may consistent
with the public interest, waive the requirement of subsection (a)
except that, if the franchise requires franchise authority approval
of a transfer, the Commission shall not waive such requirements
unless the franchise authority has approved the transfer. The Commission shall use its authority under this subsection to permit
appropriate transfers in the cases of default, foreclosure, or other
financial distress.
"(e) LIMITATION ON DURATION OF FRANCHISING AUTHORMrY
POWER TO DISAPPROVE TRANSFERS.-In the case of any sale or
transfer of ownership of any cable system after the 36-month period
following acquisition of such system, a franchising authority shall,
if the franchise requires franchising authority approval of a sale
or transfer, have 120 days to act upon any request for approval
of such sale or transfer that contains or is accompanied by such
information as is required in accordance with Commission regulations and by the franchising authority. If the franchising authority
fails to render a final decision on the request within 120 days,
such request shall be deemed granted unless the requesting party
and the franchising authority agree to an extension of time.'.
SEC. 14. SUBSCRIBER BILL rMITEIZATION.
Section 622(c) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
542(c)) is amended to read as follows:
'(c) Each cable operator may identify, consistent with the regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 623,
as a separate line item on each regular bill of each subscriber,
each of the following:
"(1) The amount of the total bill assessed as a franchise
fee and the identity of the franchising authority to which the
fee is paid.
"(2) The amount of the total bill assessed to satisfy any
requirements imposed on the cable operator by the franchise

106 STAT. 1490

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCT. 5, 1992
agreement to support public, educational, or governmental
channels or the use of such channels.
'(3) The amount of any other fee, tax, assessment, or charge
of any kind imposed by any governmental authority on the
transaction between the operator and the subscriber.".

SEC. 15. NOTICE TO CABLE SUBSCRIBERS ON UNSOLICITED SEXUALLY

EXPLICIT PROGRAMS
Section 624(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
544(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
i(3)XA) If a cable operator provides a premium channel without
charge to cable subscribers who do not subscribe to such premium
channel, the cable operator shall, not later than 30 days before
such premium channel is provided without charge"(i) notify all cable subscribers that the cable operator
plans to provide a premium channel without charge;
"(ii) notify all cable subscribers when the cable operator
plans to offer a premium channel without charge;
"(iii) notify all cable subscribers that they have a right
to request that the channel carrying the premium channel
be blocked- and
"(iv) block the channel carrying the premium channel upon
the request of a subscriber.
"(B) For the purpose of this section, the term 'premium channel'
shall mean any pay service offered on a per channel or per program
basis, which offers movies rated by the Motion Picture Association
of America as X, NC-17, or R.".

qRcuhationlS.

SEC. 16. TECHNICAL STANDARDS; EMERGENCY ANNOUNCEMENTS:
PROGRAMMING CHANGES; HOME WRING.
(a) TECHNICAL STANDARDS.--Section 624(e) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 544(e)) is amended to read as follows:
"(e) Within one year after the date of enactment of the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the
Commission shall prescribe regulations which establish minimum
technical standards relating to cable systems' technical operation
and signal quality. The Commission shall update such standards
periodically to reflect improvements in technology. A franchising
authority may require as part of a franchise (including a modification, renewal, or transfer thereof) provisions for the enforcement
of the standards prescribed under this subsection. A franchising
authority may apply to the Commission for a waiver to impose
standards that are more stringent than the standards prescribed
by the Commission under this subsection.".
(b) EMERGENCY ANNOUNCEMENTS.-Section 624 of such Act (47
U.S.C. 544) is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
"(g) Notwithstanding any such rule, regulation, or order, each
cable operator shall comply with such standards as the Commission
shall prescribe to ensure that viewers of video programming on
cable systems are afforded the same emergency information as
is afforded by the emergency broadcasting system pursuant to Commission regulations in subpart G of part 73, title 47, Code of
Federal Regulations.".
(c) PROGRAMMING CHANGES.-Section 624 of such Act (47 U.S.C.
544) is further amended-

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCT.

5, 1992

106 STAT. 1491

(1) in subsection (bX1), by inserting ', except as provided
in subsection (h)," after 'but may not";and
(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(h) A franchising authority may require a cable operator to
do any one or more of the following:
'(1) Provide 30 days' advance written notice of any change
in channel assignment or in the video programming service
provided over any such channeL
"(2) Inform subscribers, via written notice, that comments
on programming and channel position changes are being
recorded by a designated office of the franchising authority. .
(d) HOME WIRING.-Section 624 of such Act (47 US.C. 544)
is further amended by'adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(i) Within 120 days after the date of enactment of this sub- Regulation
section, the Commission shall prescribe rules concerning the disposition, after a subscriber to a cable system terminates service,
of any cable installed by the cable operator within the premises
of such subscriber.".
SEC. 17. CONSUMER ELECTRONICS EQUIPMENT COMPATIBILITY.
The Communications Act of 1934 is amended by adding after
section 624 (47 U.S.C. 544) the following new section:
'SEC. 624A. CONSUMER ELECrUONICS EQUIPMENT COMPATIBILITY. 47 USC 544a.
"(a) FINDLINGS.-The Congress finds that"(1) new and recent models of television receivers and
video cassette recorders often contain premium features and
functions that are disabled or inhibited because of cable scrambling, encoding, or encryption technologies and devices, including converter boxes and remote control devices required by
cable operators to receive programming;
(2) if these problems are allowed to persist, consumers
will be less likely to purchase, and electronics equipment manu:
facturers will be less likely to develop, manufacture, or offer
for sale television receivers and video cassette recorders with
new ana innovative features and functions; and
"(3) cable operators should use technologies that will prevent signal thefts while permitting consumers to benefit from
such features and functions in such receivers and recorders.
"(b) COMPATIBLE LN'TERFACES."(1) REPORT; REGULATIONS.-Within 1 year after the date
of enactment of this section, the Commission, in consultation
wvith representatives of the cable industry and the consumer
electronics industry, shall report to Congress on means of assuring compatibility between televisions and video cassette recorders and cable systems, consistent with the need to prevent
theft of cable service, so that cable subscribers will be able
to enjoy the full benefit of both the programming available
on cable systems and the functions available on their televisions
and video cassette recorders. Within 180 days after the date
of submission of the report required by this subsection,'the
Commission shall issue such regulations as are necessary to
assure such compatibility.
"(2) SCRAMBLING AND ENCRYPTION.-In issuing the regulations referred to in paragraph (1), the Commission shall determine whether and, if so, under what circumstances to permit
cable systems to scramble or encrypt signals or to restrict

106 STAT. 1492

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--Ocr. 5, 1992
cable systems in the manner in which they encrypt or scramble
signals, except that the Commission shall not limit the use
of scrambling or encryption technology where the use of such
technology does not interfere with the functions of subscribers'
television receivers or video cassette recorders.
"(c) RULEMAKING REQUIREMENTS."(1) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.-In prescribing the regulations required by this section, the Commission shall
consider'(A) the costs and benefits to consumers of imposing
compatibility requirements on cable operators and television manufacturers in a manner that, while providing
effective protection against theft or unauthorized reception
of cable service, will minimize interference with or nullification of the special functions of subscribers' television
receivers or video cassette recorders, including functions
that permit the subscriber'(i) to watch a program on one channel while
simultaneously using a video cassette recorder to tape
a program on another channel;
"(ii) to use a video cassette recorder to tape two
consecutive programs that appear on different channels; and
"(iii) to use advanced television picture generation
and display features; and
"(B) the need for cable operators to protect the integrity
of the signals transmitted by the cable operator against
theft or to protect such signals against unauthorized reception.
"(2) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.-The regulations prescribed
by the Commission under this section shall include such regulations as are necessary"(A) to specify the technical requirements with which
a television receiver or video cassette recorder must comply
in order to be sold as 'cable compatible' or 'cable ready';
i(B) to require cable operators offering channels whose
reception requires a converter box"(i) to notify subscribers that they may be unable
to benefit from the special functions of their television
receivers and video cassette recorders, including functions that permit subscribers"(I) to watch a program on one channel while
simultaneously using a video cassette recorder to
tape a program on another channel;
"(II) to use a video cassette recorder to tape
two consecutive programs that appear on different
channels; and
"(III) to use advanced television picture generation and display features; and
'(ii) to the extent technically and economically feasible, to offer subscribers the option of having all other
channels delivered directly to the subscribers' television receivers or video cassette recorders without
passing through the converterbox;
"(C) to promote the commercial availability, from cable
operators and retail vendors that are not affiliated with

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--

C. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1493

cable systems, of converter boxes and of remote control
devices compatible with converter boxes;
'(D) to require a cable operator who offers subscribers
the option of renting a remote control unit'(i) to notiy subscribers that they may purchase
a commercially available remote control device from
any source that sells such devices rather than renting
it from the cable operator-, and
"(ii) to specify the types of remote control units
that are compatible with the converter box supplied
by the cable operator; and
"(E) to prohibit a cable operator from taking any action
that prevents or in any way disables the converter box
supplied by the cable operator from operating compatibly
with commercially available remote control units.
"(d) REVIEW OF REGULATIONS.-The Commission shall periodically review and, if necessary, modify the regulations issued pursuant to this section in light of any actions taken in response to
such regulations and to reflect improvements and changes in cable
systems, television receivers, video cassette recorders, and similar
technology.".
SEC. 18 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
(a) COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.--Section 626(a) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 546(a)) is amended to
read as follows:
"SEC. 626. (a)(1) A franchising authority may, on its own initiative during the 6-month period which begins with the 36th month
before the franchise expiration, commence a proceeding which
affords the public in the franchise area appropriate notice and
participation for the purpose of (A) identifying the future cablerelated community needs and interests, and (B) reviewing the performance of the cable operator under the franchise during the
then current franchise term. If the cable operator submits, during
such 6-month period, a written renewal notice requesting the commencement of such a proceeding, the franchising authority shall
commence such a proceeding not later than 6 months after the
date such notice is submitted.
"(2) The cable operator may not invoke the renewal procedures
set forth in subsections (b) through (g) unless'(A) such a proceeding is requested by the cable operator
by timely submission of such notice; or
'(B) such a proceeding is commenced by the franchising
authority on its own initiative.'.
(b) PROCEEDING ON RENEWAL PROPOSAL.-Section 626(cX1) of
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 546(cX1)) is amended(1) by inserting 'pursuant to subsection (b)' after "renewal
of a franchise"; and
(2) by striking 'completion of any proceedings under subsection (a)" and inserting the following: 'date of the submission
of the cable operator's proposal pursuant to subsection (b)".
(c) REVIEW CRITERA.--Section 626(cX1XB) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 546(cX1XB)) is amended by striking
'mix, quality, or level" and inserting 'mix or quality.
(d) CORRECTION OF FArLURES.--Section 626(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 546(d)) is amended-

106 STAT. 1494

PUBLIC LAW 102-385---OC. 5, 1992

(1) by inserting 'that has been submitted in compliance
with subsection (bY' after 'Any denial of a proposal for renewal";
and
(2) by striking 'or has effectively acquiesced" and inserting
'or the cable operator gives written notice of a failure or inability to cure and the franchising authority fails to object within
a reasonable time after receipt of such notice".
(e) HARMLESS ERROR.- Section 626(eX2XA) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 546(eX2XA)) is amended by inserting
after 'franchising authority" the following- ", other than harmless
error,".
(f) CONFLICT BETWEEN REVOCATION AND RENEWAL PROCEEDINGS.-Section 626 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 US.C.
546) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) through
(h), any lawful action to revoke a cable operator's franchise for
cause shall not be negated by the subsequent initiation of renewal
proceedings by the cable operator under this section.".
SEC. 19. DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETITION AND DIVERSITY IN VIDEO
PROGRAMMING DISTRIBUTION.

Part m of title VI of the Communications Act of 1934 is
amended by inserting after section 627 (47 US.C. 547) the following
new section:
47 USC 548.

"SEC. 628 DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETITrON AND DIVERSITY IN VIDEO
PROGRAMMING DISTRIBUTION.

"(a) PURPOSE.-The purpose of this section is to promote the
public interest, convenience, and necessity by increasing competition
and diversity in the multichannel video programming market, to
increase the availability of satellite cable programming and satellite
broadcast programming to persons in rural and other areas not
currently able to receive such programming, and to spur the development of communications technologies.
"(b) PROHIBITION.-It shall be unlawful for a cable operator,
a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator
has an attributable interest, or a satellite broadcast programming
vendor to engage in unfair methods of competition or unfair or
deceptive acts or practices, the purpose or effect of which is to
hinder significantly or to prevent any multichannel video programming distributor from providing satellite cable programming or
satellite broadcast programming to subscribers or consumers.
"(C) REGULATIONS REQUIRED."(1) PROCEEDrNG REQUIRED.-Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall, in
order to promote the public interest, convenience, and necessity
by increasing competition and diversity in the multichannel
video programming market and the continuing development
of communications technologies, prescribe regulations to specify
particular conduct that is prohibited by subsection (b).
"(2) MINIMUM CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.-The regulations
to be promulgated under this section shall-'(A) establish effective safeguards to prevent a cable
operator which has an attributable interest in a satellite
cable programming vendor or a satellite broadcast programming vendor from unduly or improperly influencing the
decision of such vendor to sell, or the prices, terms, and
conditions of sale of, satellite cable programming or satellite

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCr. 5, 1992

IN6 STAT. 1495

broadcast programming to any unaffiliated multichannel
video programming distributor;
'(B) prohibit discrimination by a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable interest or by a satellite broadcast programming
vendor in the prices, terms, and conditions of sale or delivery of satellite cable programming or satellite broadcast
programming among or between cable systems, cable operators, or other multichannel video programming distributors,
or their agents or buying groups; except that such a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator
has an attributable interest or such a satellite broadcast
programming vendor shall not be prohibited from-"(i) imposing reasonable requirements for creditworthiness, offering of service, and financial stability
and standards regarding character and technical quality,.
i (ii) establishing different prices, terms, and conditions to take into account actual and reasonable differences in the cost of creation, sale, delivery, or transmission of satellite cable programming or satellite
broadcast programming;
'(iii) establishing different prices, terms, and conditions which take into account economies of scale, cost
savings, or other direct and legitimate economic benefits reasonably attributable to the number of subscribers served by the distributor; or
"(iv) entering into an exclusive contract that is
permitted under subparagraph (D)_
i(C) prohibit practices, understandings, arrangements,
and activities, including exclusive contracts for satellite
cable programming or satellite broadcast programming
between a cable operator and a satellite cable programming
vendor or satellite broadcast programming vendor, that
prevent a multichannel video programming distributor
from obtaining such programming from any satellite cable
programming vendor in which a cable operator has an
attributable interest or any satellite broadcast programming vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable
interest for distribution to persons in areas not served
by a cable operator as of the date of enactment of this
section; and
"(D) with respect to distribution to persons in areas
served by a cable operator, prohibit exclusive contracts
for satellite cable programming or satellite broadcast programming between a cable operator and a satellite cable
programming vendor in which a cable operator has an
attributable interest or a satellite broadcast programming
vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable
interest, unless the Commission determines (in accordance
with paragraph (4)) that such contract is in the public
interest.
"(3) LIMITATIONS."(A) GEOGRAPHIC LIMITATIONS.-Nothing

in this section

shall require any person who is engaged in the national
or regional distribution of video programming to make
such programming available in any geographic area beyond

106 STAT. 1496

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-CT. 5, 1992
which such programming has been authorized or licensed
for distribution.
"(B) APPLICABILTY TO SATELLITE RETRANSMISSIONS.-

Nothing in this section shall apply (i) to the signal of
any broadcast affiliate of a national television network
or other television signal that is retransmitted by satellite
but that is not satellite broadcast programming, or (ii)
to any internal satellite communication of any broadcast
network or cable network that is not satellite broadcast
programming.
"(4) PUBLIC INTEREST DETERMINATIONS ON EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS.-In determining whether an exclusive contract is in
the public interest for purposes of paragraph (2XD), the Commission shall consider each of the following factors with respect
to the effect of such contract on the distribution of video programming in areas that are served by a cable operator.
"(A) the effect of such exclusive contract on the development of competition in local and national multichannel
video programming distribution markets;
"(B) the effect of such exclusive contract on competition
from multichannel video programming distribution technologies other than cable;
"(C) the effect of such exclusive contract on the attraction of capital investment in the production and distribution
of new satellite cable programming,
"(D) the effect of such exclusive contract on diversity
of programming in the multichannel video programming
distribution market; and
"(E) the duration of the exclusive contract.
"(5) SUNSET PROVISION.-The prohibition required by paragraph (2XD) shall cease to be effective 10 years after the
date of enactment of this section, unless the Commission finds,
in a proceeding conducted during the last year of such 10year period, that such prohibition continues to be necessary
to preserve and protect competition and diversity in the distribution of video programming.
"(d) ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDING.-Any multichannel video pro-

Regultiona

gramming distributor aggrieved by conduct that it alleges constitutes a violation of subsection (b), or the regulations of the
Commission under subsection (c), may commence an adjudicatory
proceeding at the Commission.
"(e) REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS."(1) REMEDIES AUTHORIZED.-Upon completion of such adjudicatory proceeding, the Commission shall have the power to
order appropriate remedies, including, if necessary, the power
to establish prices, terms, and conditions of sale of programming
to the aggrieved multichannel video programming distributor.
"(2) ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.-The remedies provided in
paragraph (1) are in addition to and not in lieu of the remedies
available under title V or any other provision of this Act.
"(f) PROCEDURES.-The Commission shall prescribe regulations
to implement this section. The Commission's regulations shall"(1) provide for an expedited review of any complaints
made pursuant to this section;
"(2) establish procedures for the Commission to collect such
data, including the right to obtain copies of all contracts and
documents reflecting arrangements and understandings alleged

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992

10.6 STAT. 1497

to violate this section, as the Commission requires to carry
out this section; and
"(3) provide for penalties to be assessed against any person
filing a frivolous complaint pursuant to this section
"(g) REPO S.--The Commission shall, beginning not later than
18 months after promulgation of the regulations required by subsection (c), annually report to Congress on the status of competition
in the market for the delivery of video programming.
"(h) EXEMPTIONS FOR PRIOR CONTRACrS."(1) IN GENERAL.--Nothing in this section shall affect any
contract that grants exclusive distribution rights to any person
with respect to satellite cable programming and that was
entered into on or before June 1, 1990, except that the provisions of subsection (cX2XC) shall apply for distribution to persons in areas not served by a cable operator.
"(2) LIMITATION ON RENEWALS.-A contract that was
entered into on or before June 1, 1990, but that is renewed
or extended after the date of enactment of this section shall
not be exempt under paragraph (1).
"(i) DEFINITIONS.-As used in this section:
"(1) The term 'satellite cable programming' has the meaning
provided under section 705 of this Act, except that such term
does not include satellite broadcast programming.
"(2) The term 'satellite cable programming vendor' means
a person engaged in the production, creation, or wholesale
distribution for sale of satellite cable programming, but does
not include a satellite broadcast programming vendor.
"(3) The term 'satellite broadcast programming' means
broadcast video programming when such programming is
retransmitted by satellite and the entity retransmitting such
programming is not the broadcaster or an entity performing
such retransmission on behalf of and with the specific consent
of the broadcaster.
"(4) The term 'satellite broadcast programming vendor'
means a fixed service satellite carrier that provides service
pursuant to section 119 of title 17, United States Code, with
respect to satellite broadcast programming.".
SEC. 20. CUSTOMER PRIVACY RIGHTS
(a) DEFINITIONS.--Section 631(a)2) of the Communications Act
of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 551(aX2)) is amended to read as follows:
"(2) For purposes of this section, other than subsection (h)"(A) the term 'personally identifiable information' does not
include any record of aggregate data which does not identify
particular persons;
"(B) the term 'other service'.includes any wire or radio
communications service provided using any of the facilities
of a cable operator that are used in the provision of cable
service; and
'(C) the term 'cable operator' includes, in addition to persons within the definition of cable operator in section 602,
any person who (i) is owned or controlled by, or under common
ownership or control with, a cable operator, and (ii) provides
any wire or radio communications service.".
(b) ADDITIONAL AcTIONs REQUIRED.--Section 631(cX)(1) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 551(cX1)) is amended by
inserting immediately before the period at the end the following:

106 STAT. 1498

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OC.

5,1992

'and shall take such actions as are necessary to prevent unauthorized access to such information by a person other than the subscriber or cable operator".
SEC. 21. TBEFT OF CABLE SERVICE.

Section 633(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
47 USC 553.

533(b)) is amended-

(1) in paragraph (2)(A) by strking "$25,000" and inserting $50,000";
(B) by stiking '1 year' and inserting "2 years";
(C) by striking '$50,000" and inserting "$100,000"; and
(D) by striking "2 years' and inserting "5 years; and
(2) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
"(3) For purposes of all penalties and remedies established
for violations of subsection (aX1), the prohibited activity established
herein as it applies to each such device shall be deemed a separate
violation.".
Minorities.
Women.

47 USC 554 note.

SEC. 22. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTIUNITY.

(a) FINDInGS.--The Congress finds and declares that-

(1) despite the existence of regulations governing equal
employment opportunity, females and minorities are not
employed in significant numbers in positions of management
authority in the cable and broadcast television industries;
(2) increased numbers of females and minorities in positions of management authority in the cable and broadcast television industries advances the Nation's policy favoring diversity
in the expression of views in the electronic media; and

(3) rigorous enforcement of equal employment opportunity
rules and regulations is required in order to effectively deter
racial and gender discrimination.
(b) STANDARDS.-Section 634(dX1) of the Communications Act

Regulations.

of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 554(dX1)) is amended to read as follows:
"(dX1) Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment
of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act
of 1992, and after notice and opportunity for hearing the Commission shall prescribe revisions in the rules under this section in
order to implement the amendments made to this section by such
Act. Such revisions shall be designed to promote equality of employment opportunities for females and minorities in each of the job
categories itemized in paragraph (3).".
(c) CONTENTS OF ANNUAL STATISTICAL REPORTS.--Section
634(dX3) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 554(dX3))
is amended to read as follows:
"(3XA) Such rules also shall require an entity specified in
subsection (a) with more than 5 full-time employees to file with
the Commission an annual statistical report identifying by race,
sex, and job title the number of employees in each of the following
full-time and part-time job categories:
"(i) Corporate officers.
I(ii) General Manager.
"(iii) Chief Technician.
"(iv) Comptroller.
"(v) General Sales Manager.
"(vi) Production Manager.
"(vii) Managers.
"(viii) Professionals.

PUBLIC LAW 102-385 -OC.

5, 1992

106 STAT. 1499

"(ix) Technicians.
"(x) Sales Personnel.
'(xi) Office and Clerical Personnel.
"(xii) Skilled Craftspersons.
"(xiii) Semiskilled Operatives,
"(xiv) Unskilled Laborers.
"(xv) Service Workers.
"(B) The report required by subparagraph (A) shall be made
on separate forms, provided by the Commission, for full-time and
part-time employees. The Commission's rules shall sufficiently
define the job categories listed in clauses (i) through (vi) of such
subparagraph so as to ensure that only employees who are principal
decisionmakers and who have supervisory authority are reported
for such categories. The Commission shall adopt rules that define
the job categories listed in clauses (vii) through (xv) in a'manner
that is consistent with the Commission policies in effect on June
1, 1990. The Commission shall prescribe the method by which
entities shall be required to compute and report the number of
minorities and women in the job categories listed in clauses (i)
through (x) and the number of minorities and women in the job
categories listed in clauses (i) through (xv) in proportion to the
total number of qualified minorities and women in the relevant
labor market. The report shall include information on hiring, promotion, and recruitment practices necessary for the Commission
to evaluate the efforts of entities to comply with the provisions
of paragraph (2) of this subsection. The report shall be available Public
for public inspection at the entity's central location and at every availability.
location where 5 or more full-time employees are regularly assigned
to work. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as prohibiting
the Commission from collecting or continuing to collect statistical
or other employment information in a manner that it deems appropriate to carry out this section.".
(d) PENALTIES.--Section 634(fX2) of such Act (47 U.S.C.
554(f)(2)) is amended by striking "$200" and inserting $500".
(e) APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.-Section 634(hX1) of such
Act (47 U.S.C. 554(hX1)) is amended by inserting before the period
the following 'and any multichannel video programming distributor".
(f) BROADCASTING EQUAL EMPLOYMKENT OPPORTUNITY.-Part I
of title III of the Communications Act of 1934 is amended by
inserting after section 333 (47 U.S.C. 333) the following new section:
SEC. 334. LIMITATION ON REVISION OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPOR- 47 USC 334.
TUNITY .EGULATION8.

"(a) LIMITATION.-Except as specifically provided in this section,
the Commission shall not revise-"(1) the regulations concerning equal employment opportunity as in effect on September 1, 1992 (47 C.FR_ 73.2080)
as such regulations apply to television broadcast station licensees and permittees; or
'(2) the forms used by such licensees and permittees to
report pertinent employment data to the Commission.
"(b) MIDTERM REvIEw.-The Commission shall revise the regulations described in subsection (a) to require a midterm review
of television broadcast station licensees' employment practices and
to require the Commission to inform such licensees of necessary

106 STAT. 150-0

47 USC 544 note

47 USC 555e

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OUT. 5, 1992

improvements in recruitment practices identified as a consequence
of such review.
'(c) AUTHORITY To MAKE TECHNICAL REVISIONS.-The Commission may revise the regulations described in subsection (a) to make
nonsubstantive technical or clerical revisions in such regulations
as necessary to reflect changes in technology, terminology, or Commission organization.'.
(g) STUDY AND REPORT REQUIRED.-Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall
submit to the Congress a report pursuant to a proceeding to review
and obtain public comment on the effect and operation of the
amendments made by this section. In conducting such review, the
Commission shall consider the effectiveness of its procedures, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines in promoting equality
of employment opportunity and promotion opportunity, and particularly the effectiveness of its procedures, regulations policies, standards, and guidelines in promoting the congressional policy favoring
increased employment opportunity for women and minorities in
positions of management authority. The Commission shall forward
to the Congress such legislative recommendations to improve equal
employment opportunity in the broadcasting and cable industries
as it deems necessary.
SEC. 23. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
Section 635 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
555) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(cX1l) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any civil
action challenging the constitutionality of section 614 or 615 of
this Act or any provision thereof shall be heard by a district court
of three judges convened pursuant to the provisions of section
2284 of title 28, United States Code.
"(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an interlocutory or final judgment, decree, or order of the court of three judges
in an action under paragraph (1) holding section 614 or 615 of
this Act or any provision thereof unconstitutional shall be
reviewable as a matter of right by direct appeal to the Supreme
Court. Any such appeal shall be filed not more than 20 days
after entry of such judgment, decree, or order.".
SEC. 24. LTMITATION ON FRANCHISING AUTHORITY LIABILXTY.
(a) AMENDMENT.-Part IV of title VI of the Communications
Act of 1934 is amended by inserting after section 635 (47 US.C.
555) the following new section:
"SEC. 635A. LIMITATION OF FRANCHISING AUTHORITY LIABILITY.
"(a) SUITS FOR DAMAGES PROHIBITED.-In any court proceeding
pending on or initiated after the date of enactment of this section
involving any claim against a franchising authority or other governmental entity, or any official, member, employee, or agent of such
authority or entity, arising from the regulation of cable service
or from a decision of approval or disapproval with respect to a
grant, renewal, transfer, or amendment of a franchise, any relief,
to the extent such relief is required by any other provision of
Federal State, or local law, shall be limited to injunctive relief
and declaratory relief.
i(b) EXCEPTION FOR COMPLETED CASES.-The limitation contained in subsection (a) shall not apply to actions that, prior to
such violation, have been determined by a final order of a court

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCr. 5, 1992

106 STAT. 1501

of binding jurisdiction, no longer subject to appeal, to be in violation
of a cable operator's rights.
"(c) DISCRIMINATION CLAIMS PERMrrED.-Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the relief authorized with respect
to any claim against a franchising authority or other governmental
entity, or any official, member, employee, or agent of such authority
or entity, to the extent such claim involves discrimination on the
basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, or handicap.
"(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.-Nothing in this section shall
be construed as creating or authorizing liability of any kind, under
any law, for any action or failure to act relating to cable service
or the granting of a franchise by any franchising authority or
other governmental entity, or any official, member, employee, or
agent of such authority or entity.".
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.--Section 635(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 555(b)) is amended by inserting
"and with the provisions of subsection (a)' after 'subsection (a)'.
SEC. 26. DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE SERVICE OBLIGATIONS
(a) AMENDMENT.-Part I of title m of the Communications
Act of 1934 is further amended by inserting after section 334
(as added by section 22(f) of this Act) the following new section:
,SEC. 33s. DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE SERVICE OBLIGATIONS.
47 USC 335.
"(a) PROCEEDING REQUIRED TO REVIEW DBS REsPONSIBILITIES.-The Commission shall, within 180 days after the date of
enactment of this section, initiate a rulemaking proceeding to
impose, on providers of direct broadcast satellite service, public
interest or other requirements for providing video programming.
Any regulations prescribed pursuant to such rulemakling shall, at
a minimum, apply the access to broadcast time requirement of
section 312(aX7) and the use of facilities requirements of section
315 to providers of direct broadcast satellite service providing video
programming. Such proceeding also shall examine the opportunities
that the establishment of direct broadcast satellite service provides
for the principle of localism under this Act, and the methods by
which such principle may be served through technological and other
developments in, or regulation of, such service.
"(b) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS FOR NONCOMMERCIAL, EDUCATIONAL, AND INFORMATIONAL PROGRAMMING."(1) CHANNEL. CAPACITY REQUIRED.-The Commission shall
require, as a condition of any provision, initial authorization,
or authorization renewal for a provider of direct broadcast
satellite service providing video programming, that the provider
of such service reserve a portion of its channel capacity, equal
to not less than 4 percent nor more than 7 percent, exclusively
for noncommercial programming of an educational or informational nature.
"(2) USE OF UNUSED CHANNEL CAPACrTY.-A provider of
such service may utilize for any purpose any unused channel
capacity required to be reserved under this subsection pending
the actual use of such channel capacity for noncommercial
programming of an educational or informational nature.
"(3) PRICES, TERMS, AND CONDITIONS; EDITORIAL CONTROLA provider of direct broadcast satellite service shall meet the
requirements of this subsection by making channel capacity
available to national educational programming suppliers, upon
reasonable prices, terms, and conditions, as determined by the

106 STAT. 1502

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCr. 5, 1992

Commission under paragraph (4). The provider of direct broadcast satellite service shall not exercise any editorial control
over any video programming provided pursuant to this subsection.
"(4) LIMITATIONS.-In determining reasonable prices under
paragraph (3)"(A) the Commission shall take into account the nonprofit character of the programming provider and any Federal funds used to support such programming
"(B) the Commission shall not permit such prices to
exceed, for any channel made available under this subsection, 50 percent of the total direct costs of making such
channel available- and
'(C) in the calculation of total direct costs, the Commission shall exclude"(i) marketing costs, general administrative costs,
and similar overhead costs of the provider of direct
broadcast satellite service; and
"(ii) the revenue that such provider might have
obtained by making such channel available to a commercial provider of video programming.
"(5) DEFINRONS.-For purposes of this subsection"(A) The term 'provider of direct broadcast satellite
service' means"(i) a licensee for a Ku-band satellite system under
part 100 of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations;
or
"(ii) any distributor who controls a minimum number of channels (as specified by Commission regulation)
using a Ku-band fixed service satellite system for the
provision of video programming directly to the home
and. licensed under part 25 of title 47 of the Code
of Federal Regulations.
"(B) The term 'national educational programming supplier' includes any qualified noncommercial educational television station, other public telecommunications entities,
and public or private educational institutions.".
(b) TECHNICAL AM~ENDENT.-Section 331 of such Act as'added
by Public Law 97-259 (47 U.S.C. 332) is redesignated as section
332.
47 USC 521 note.

SEC. 26. SPORTS PROGRAnhMIING MnGRATION STUDY AND REPORT.

(a) STUDY REQUIRED.-The Federal Communications Commission shall conduct an ongoing study on the carriage of local, regional,
and national sports programming by broadcast stations, cable pro
gramming networks and pay-per-view services. The study shall
investigate and analyze, on a sport-by-sport basis, trends in the
migration of such programming from carriage by broadcast stations
to carriage over cable programming networks and pay-per-view
systems, including the economic causes and the economic and social
consequences of such trends.
(b) REPORT ON STUDY.-The Federal Communications Commission shall, on or before July 1, 1993, and July 1, 1994, submit
an interim and a final report, respectively, on the results of the
study required by subsection (a) to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate. Such

106 STAT. 1503

PUBLIC LAW 102-385-OCr. 5, 1992

reports shall include a statement of the results, on a sport-bysport basis, of the analysis of the trends required by subsection
(a) and such legislative or regulatory recommendations as the Commission considers appropriate.
(c) ANALYSIS OF PRECLUSIVE CONTRACTS REQUIRED.-(1) ANALYSIS REQUIED.--In conducting the study required
by subsection (a), the Commission shall analyze the extent
to which preclusive contracts between college athletic conferences and video programming vendors have artificially and
unfairly restricted the supply of the sporting events of local
colleges for broadcast on local television stations. In conducting
such analysis, the Commission shall consult with the Attorney
General to determine whether and to what extent such preclusive contracts are prohibited by existing statutes. The reports
required by subsection (b) shall include separate statements
of the results of the analysis required by this subsection,
together with such recommendations for legislation as the Comrmssion considers necessary and appropriate.
(2) DEFINITION.-For purposes of the subsection, the term
'preclusive contract" includes any contract that prohibits(A) the live broadcast by a local television station of
a sporting event of a local college team that is not carried,
on a live basis, by any cable system within the local community served by such local television station; or
(B) the delayed broadcast by a local television station
of a sporting event of a local college team that is not
carried, on a live or delayed basis, by any cable system
within the local community served by such local television
station.
SEC. 27. APPLICABILTrY OF ANTITRUST LAW&.

47 USC 521 note.

Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act
shall be construed to alter or restrict in any manner the applicability
of any Federal or State antitrust law.
SEC. 28 EFFECTIVE DATE.

47 USC 325 note.

Except where otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of
this Act and the amendments made thereby shall take effect 60
days after the date of enactment of this Act.

THOMAs

S. FOLzY

Speaker of the House of Representatiuv
RonERT C. BYRa
President of the Senate pro tempore.

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
October 5 (Zgislatiue day, September 30 1S9-l.
The Senate having proceeded to reconsider the bill (S 12) entitled "An Act to amend
the Communications Act of 1934 to provide incr-ead consumer protection and to
promote increased competition in the cable television and related markets, and for
other purposes", returned by the President of the United Statess with his objections, to
the Senate, in which it originated, it was
Resolved That the said bill pass, two-thirds of the Senators present having voted in
the affirmative.
WALKR J. STEWAWR
Secretary.

106 STAT. 1504

PUBLIC LAW 102-385--OCT. 5, 1992
I certify that this Act originated in the Senate.
WALTER J. STEWArT
Seotary.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES US,
October 5, 1992

The House of Representatives having proceeded to reconsider the bill (S. 12) entitled
"An Act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to provide increased consumer
protection and to promote increased competition in the cable television and related
markets, and for other purposes", returned by the President of the United States with
his objections, to the Senate, in which it originated, it was
Resolued, That the said bill paw, two-thirds of the House of Representatives
agreeing to pass the same
DONNALD K. ANDERSON

At-L

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY-S. 12 tH.R. 4850k
HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 102-628 accompanying H.R 48150 (Comm. on Energy and
Commerce) and 102-862 (Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 102-92 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, and Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 138 (1992):
Jan. 27, 29-31, considered and passed Senate.
July 23, H.R 4850 considered and passed House; S 12, amended, passed in lieu.
Sept. 17, House agreed to conference report
Sept. 21, 22, Senate considered and agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 28 (1992):
Oct. 3, Presidential veto message.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 138 (1992)
Oct 5, Senate and House overrode veto.

0

