LAW	  (13)	  FOR	  THE	  YEAR	  2012	  
REGARDING	  
THE	  RIGHT	  OF	  ACCESS	  TO	  INFORMATION	  
In	  the	  name	  of	  the	  people:	  
	  	  	  	  	  President	  of	  the	  republic:	  
-­‐After	  reviewing	  the	  constitution	  of	  the	  Yemeni	  Republic	  
-­‐And	  after	  the	  approval	  of	  the	  house	  of	  representatives	  
	  
We	  issued	  the	  following	  law	  
	  
PART	  I	  
Chapter	  I:	  Nomenclature	  and	  Definitions	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (1):	  	  
This	  law	  is	  called	  the	  law	  of	  the	  right	  of	  access	  to	  information.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (2):	  	  
For	   the	   purposes	   of	   this	   law,	   the	   following	   words	   and	   phrases	   shall	   have	   the	   meanings	   assigned	  
to	  them	  unless	  the	  context	  otherwise	  requires.	  
	  
Republic:	  	  

	  

	  

The	  Republic	  of	  Yemen.	  

	  
Commissioner-­‐General:	  	  

Commissioner-­‐General	  for	  Information.	  

	  
Office:	  	   	  

	  

	  

Office	  of	  the	  Commissioner-­‐General	  for	  Information.	  

	  
Concerned	  party:	  	  

The	   legislative,	   executive	   and	   judicial	   branches,	   ministries	   and	  
agencies,	  institutions	  and	  departments	  of	  central	  and	  local	  units	  
along	  with	  both	  the	  public	  and	  the	  mixed	  sector	  and	  every	  party	  
shall	  be	  partially	  or	  entirely	  funded	  from	  the	  general	  budget	  of	  
the	  State.	  

1

	  
Competent	  employee:	  	  

The	   employee	   designated	   by	   the	   agency	   to	   consider	   the	  
requests	  for	  information.	  

	  
Information:	  	  

Facts	   that	   are	   recognized	   in	   the	   conscience	   and	   which	   are	  
present	   as	   moral	   	   and	   materialistic	   values	   	   in	   the	   form	   of	  
numbers	  and	  letters;	  also,	  as	  drawings,	  images	  and	  sounds	  that	  
which	   are	   being	   collected,	   processed	   and	   saved	   by	   electronic	  
methods	  and	  sheets,	  	  

	  
Information	  System:	  	  

A	   set	   of	   elements,	   whether	   human	   materialistic	   and	   technical,	  
or	  organizational	  and	  cognitive,	  that	  which	  would	  interact	  with	  
each	  other	  and	  work	  together	  to	  achieve	  the	  data	  collection	  and	  
information	   processing,	   analysis	   and	   archiving,	   exchange	   and	  
dissemination	  as	  to	  meet	  the	  needs	  of	  beneficiaries.	  

	  
Personal	  data:	  	  

Information	  about	  an	  individual	  relating	  to	  a	  particular	  strain	  of	  
this	  individual,	  and	  marital	  status,	  ,;	  	  On	  the	  condition	  that	  it	  is	  
not	   allowed	   to	   give	   information	   related	   to	   individuals	   without	  
their	   direct	   consent	   or	   consent	   of	   any	   of	   their	   first,	   second	   or	  
third	  degree	  relatives	  in	  case	  they	  are	  dead.	  

	  
	  
	  
The	  cost	  of	  access	  to	  information:	  	  

It	   is	   the	   actual	   cost	   incurred	   to	   portray	   or	   copy	   the	  
information	   required	   on	   paper	   or	   electronically	  
excluding	   the	   cost	   of	   any	   staff	   time	   it	   takes	   to	   arrange	  
these	  copies	  and	  highlighted	  or	  moved.	  

	  
National	  Information	  Center:	   The	   body	   that	   was	   created	   under	   Presidential	   Decree	   No.	   (55)	  
for	  the	  year	  1995.	  

2

	  
	  
	  Rules	  

	  	  Executive	  rules	  of	  this	  law.	  
	  
Chapter	  II:	  Objectives	  

	  
ARTICLE	  (3):	  	  
This	  law	  aims	  to:	  	  
A. 	  Secure	  and	  facilitate	  the	  citizen's	  right	  to	  access	  information	  without	  delay	  and	  expand	  
the	  rules	  of	  the	  exercise	  of	  rights	  and	  freedoms.	  
	  
B. Promote	  the	  elements	  of	  transparency	  and	  expand	  all	  opportunities	  for	  conscious	  and	  
responsible	  participation.	  
	  
C. Enable	   the	   community	   to	   develop	   their	   abilities	   to	   take	   more	   advantage	   of	   the	  
information.	  
	  
PART	  II:	  FREEDOM	  OF	  ACCESS	  TO	  INFORMATION	  
Chapter	  I:	  principles	  of	  the	  right	  of	  access	  to	  information	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (4):	  	  
Access	  to	  information	  is	  one	  of	  the	  basic	  rights	  of	  the	  citizen.	  citizens	  have	  the	  right	  to	  exercise	  
this	  right	  within	  the	  law.	  Foreigners	  can	  have	  access	  to	  information	  on	  the	  condition	  of	  having	  
the	  same	  treatment.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (5):	  	  
A	   request	   for	   information	   directly	   to	   the	   concerned	   authority	   or	   party	   of	   the	   information	  
required.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (6):	  	  
The	   access	   to	   information	   shall	   be	   directly	   to	   those	   who	   submit	   the	   request	   or	   indirectly	   by	  
publication,	  or	  in	  both	  ways	  together	  

3

	  
ARTICLE	  (7):	  	  

[All	  natural	  and	  legal	  persons	  have	  the	  right	  to	  apply	  for	  access	  to	  information	  and	  there	  
should	  not	  be	  any	  legal	  accountability	  from	  the	  submission	  of	  this	  application.]	  
	  
	  
Chapter	  II:	  Request	  for	  access	  of	  Information	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (8):	  	  
Each	  party	  ought	  to	  designate	  an	  information	  specialist	  who	  would	  head	  a	  unit	  of	  information	  
that	   is	   part	   of	   the	   components	   of	   the	   national	   system	   of	   information	   and	   is	   linked	  
administratively	  and	  functionally	  to	  the	  pertaining	  party,	  and	  he	  shall:	  
A. Control	  the	  necessary	  powers	  to	  search	  and	  access	  to	  the	  information	  required.	  
B. Consider	  all	  requests	  for	  access	  of	  information.	  
C. Maintain	  and	  preserve	  the	  information.	  
D. Disseminate	   procedures	   and	   forms	   in	   ways	   that	   would	   allow	   the	   beneficiaries	   to	   look	   at	  
them	  easily.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (9):	  	  
The	   party	   shall	   do	   maintenance	   and	   preservation	   of	   information	   in	   their	   possession	  
systematically	   and	   in	   an	   order	   that	   would	   allow	   the	   employee	   in	   charge	   to	   easily	   execute	   its	  
extraction	  process	  using	  the	  necessary	  techniques,	  methods	  and	  software.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (10):	  	  
The	  party	  shall	  organize	  training	  courses	  for	  its	  employees	  regarding	  the	  importance	  of	  the	  right	  
to	  access	  and	  to	  enable	  citizens	  to	  exercise	  and	  how	  to	  save	  the	  information	  and	  find	  the	  best	  
and	  fastest	  ways	  to	  save	  and	  retrieve	  them.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (11):	  	  
The	  party	  must	  put	  informational	  evidences	  and	  publish	  annual	  reports	  containing	  at	  least	  the	  
following:	  

4

A. Management	   information	   on	   the	   mechanism	   of	   action	   to	   include	   the	   objectives,	   activities	  
and	  programs	  and	  the	  final	  accounts,	  along	  with	  information	  on	  areas	  of	  its	  official	  activities	  
and	  the	  results	  of	  the	  performance	  of	  its	  constitutional	  and	  legal	  duties.	  
	  
B. Determine	   how	   and	   where	   the	   citizens	   get	   the	   information	   and	   make	   requests	   and	   learn	  
about	  the	  documents,	  receive	  and	  abstract	  copies	  and	  get	  a	  decision.	  
	  
C. Index	   of	   all	   types	   of	   information	   that	   legally	   oblige	   the	   party	   in	   charge	   to	   execute	   their	  
conservation	  and	  maintenance.	  
	  
D. 	  A	   report	   on	   requests	   for	   access	   to	   information	   that	   have	   been	   received	   and	   that	   have	   been	  
operated	  upon	  and	  those	  that	  have	  been	  rejected	  and	  the	  reasons	  for	  rejection	  and	  motions	  
that	  have	  been	  submitted,	  along	  with	  the	  actions	  relating	  thereto,	  and	  the	  average	  number	  
of	  days	  during	  which	  there	  has	  been	  responses	  to	  requests	  for	  information.	  
	  
E. Directory	  lists	  of	  the	  topics	  that	  you	  must	  publish	  along	  with	  the	  dates	  and	   methods	  of	  their	  
dissemination.	  
	  
F. As	  for	  any	  other	  additional	  information	  that	  the	  Commissioner	  sees	  it	  necessary	  to	  publish	  
in	  accordance	  with	  the	  purposes	  of	  this	  Act.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (12):	  	  
You	   must	   provide	   the	   National	   Information	   Center	   with	   the	   information	   that	   are	   published	  
under	   Article	   (11)	   of	   this	   Act	   and	   both	   the	   party	   and	   the	   National	   Information	   Center	   have	   to	  
provide	  this	  information	  through	  sheets	  or	  electronically,	  either	  free	  of	  charge	  or	  at	  prices	  not	  
exceeding	  the	  cost	  of	  obtaining	  information.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (13):	  	  
It	  is	  not	  permitted	  to	  inflict	  any	  punishment	  on	  any	  employee	  who	  has	  given	  information	  to	  an	  
authorized	   investigation	   entity	   about	   violations	   or	   infringements	   of	   this	   law	   or	   who	   has	   assisted	  
in	   any	   investigation	   about	   any	   violation	   or	   infringement	   of	   this	   law.	   Also,	  he	   may	   not	   be	   subject	  

5

to	   Disciplinary accountability	   	   by	   the	   administration	   to	   which	   he	   is	   affiliated.	  	  
ARTICLE	  (14):	  	  
Any	  competent	  officer	  against	  whom	  punitive	  action	  was	  taken	  in	  accordance	  with	  Article	  (13)	  
of	   this	   Act	   may	   appeal	   to	   the	   courts	   of	   the	   Republic	   of	   Yemen	   for	   redress	   and	   compensation	   for	  
the	  damage	  he	  was	  inflicted	  by.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (15):	  	  
A	   request	   for	   access	   to	   the	   information	   in	   writing	   shall	   be	   done	   in	   accordance	   with	   the	   form	  
designed	  for	  this	  purpose	  to	  the	  party	  whom	  the	  applicant	  believes	  it	  possesses	  the	  information,	  
including	   the	   applicant's	   name	   and	   address	   of	   residence	   and	   work	   location;	   and	   this	   request	  
must	   contain	   sufficient	   details	   that	   would	   enable	   the	   employee	   in	   charge	   to	   extract	   the	  
information	   while	   the	   request	   for	   the	   application	  	   to	   access	   to	   information	   shall	   be	   done	   via	  
Instant-­‐mail	  or	  postal	  mail	  or	  through	  direct	  attendance	  to	  the	  source	  of	  access	  to	  information	  
or	  the	  National	  Center	  for	  Information;	  and	  in	  all	  cases,	  the	  application	  will	  be	  submitted	  upon	  
the	  form	  approved	  for	  that.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (16):	  	  
The	   procedures	   and	   forms	   organized	   to	  access	   the	   information	   shall	   take	   into	   account	   providing	  
additional	  facilities	  appropriate	  for	  the	  illiterate	  and	  those	  with	  special	  needs.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (17):	  	  
After	  receiving	  the	  request,	  the	  employee	  in	  charge	  shall	  immediately	  give	  notice	  of	  receipt	  to	  
those	  who	  have	  made	  the	  request	  indicating	  the	  date	  of	  submission	  of	  the	  application	  and	  the	  
type	  of	  information	  and	  the	  time	  required	  to	  respond	  to	  the	  request	  specified	  in	  this	  law.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (18):	  	  
The	   employee	   in	   charge	   shall	   respond	   to	   the	   request	   within	   fifteen	   days	   from	   the	   date	   of	   its	  
submission,	  the	  employee	  may	  extend	  this	  period	  for	  one	  period	  of	  time	  not	  to	  exceed	  fifteen	  
days	   if	   the	   application	   contains	   a	   large	   number	   of	   information,	   or	   if	   access	   to	   information	  
requires	  reasonable	  consultation	  of	  another	  party,	  whereas	  it	  would	  be	  considered	  as	  a	  denial	  
to	   the	   request	   if	   there	   was	   no	   response	   during	   that	   period	   of	   time.	  And	   where	   such	   extension	   is	  
appropriate,	   the	   employee	   in	   charge	   shall	   report	   to	   the	   applicant	   in	   writing,	   during	   original	  

6

period	  of	  time	  while	  giving	  priority	  to	  requests	  that	  were	  applied	  by	  the	  journalists	  and	  people	  
who	   collect	   news	   and	   job	   seekers	   who	   work	   during	   the	   time	   limits	   or	   by	   those	   who	   ask	   for	  
information	  on	  issues	  dealing	  with	  the	  public	  interest	  or	  public	  affairs.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (19):	  	  
A. The	  employee	  in	  charge	  shall	  enable	  the	  applicant	  to	  have	  access	  to	  information	  from	  
him	  and	  determines	  the	  cost	  of	  that,	  where	  appropriate,	  if	  copies	  were	  requested.	  
	  
B. If	  the	  employee	   in	  charge	  found	  that	  part	  of	  the	  information	  required	  is	  under	  one	  or	  
more	  exceptional	  articles	  as	  specified	  in	  this	  law,	  and	  that	  it	  is	  based	  on	  this	  exception,	  
then,	  he	  would	  have	  to	  deliver	  the	  part	  that	  is	  not	  excluded	  and	  deliver	  a	  notice	  to	  the	  
applicant	  in	  writing	  that	  there	  is	  a	  part	  of	  the	  information	  that	  was	  withheld	  from	  him,	  
specifying	   in	   writing	   the	   specific	   exception	   in	   this	   law	   upon	   which	   the	   employee	   in	  
charge	  has	  relied	  to	  withhold	  the	  requested	  information.	  
	  
C. If	   the	   request	   is	   made	   to	   get	   the	   information	   and	   the	   information	   is	   available	   at	   the	  
source	  in	  another	  language	  or	  in	  a	  different	  way	  from	  what	  is	  required,	  then,	  it	  would	  be	  
sufficient	   to	   simply	   hand	   over	   the	   requested	   information	   in	   the	   language	   or	   form	   in	  
which	  the	  two	  are	  available	  as	  long	  as	  they	  contain	  the	  required	  information.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (20):	  	  
When	  approval	  of	  the	  request	  is	  done,	  the	  employee	  in	  charge	  must	  submit	  to	  the	  applicant	  of	  
the	  required	  information	  all	  documents	  that	  contain	  the	  information	  on	  paper	  or	  electronically	  
according	  to	  the	  formula	  that	  is	  available	  to	  the	  authority	  and	  as	  required	  by	  the	  applicant.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (21):	  	  
It	   is	   permissible	   for	   the	   employee	   in	   charge	   to	   refer	   the	   request	   to	   another	   party	   after	   notifying	  
the	   applicant	   thereof	   during	   the	   time	   period	   identified	   in	   Article	   (19)	   of	   this	   Act)	   of	   law,	   if	   he	  
determines	  that	  the	  connection	  of	  that	  party	  	  	  to	  the	  information	  requested	  is	  greater	  in	  which	  
case,	   the	   application	   shall	   be	   considered	   as	   if	   it	   was	   presented	   to	   the	   party	   that	   was	   referred	   to	  
during	  the	  time	  the	  submission	  was	  done	  to	  the	  other	  party	  in	  accordance	  with	  Article	  (19)	  of	  
this	  Act.	  

7

	  
ARTICLE	  (22):	  	  
If	  the	  request	  is	  denied,	  in	  whole	  or	  in	  part,	  the	  employee	  has	  to	  show	  in	  a	  written	  reply	  that	  
would	   be	   submitted	   to	   the	   applicant,	   the	   reason	   for	   the	   rejection	   of	   the	   application	   and	   that	  
reason	  should	  not	  be:	  
A. That	  the	  information	  is	  not	  held	  by	  the	  party.	  
	  
B. That	  the	  information	  required	  fall	  within	  the	  scope	  of	  one	  or	  more	  exceptions	  specified	  
in	   this	   law	   and	   that	   Article	   (27)	   is	   not	   applicable	   while	   the	   exception/exceptions	   that	  
were	  utilized	  should	  be	  referred	  to.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (23):	  	  
In	  case	  the	  applicant	  of	  the	  decision	  is	  not	  convinced,	  he	  is	  entitled	  then	  and	  in	  accordance	  with	  
Articles	  (30)	  to	  (32)	  of	  the	  Act	  to	  complain	  to	  the	  Office	  of	  the	  Commissioner-­‐General,	  with	  the	  
recourse	  to	  go	  to	  court	  if	  he	  is	  not	  convinced	  by	  the	  decision	  of	  the	  Office	  of	  the	  Commissioner	  
General.	  
	  
Chapter	  III:	  Exceptions	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (24):	  	  
Subject	  to	  the	  provisions	  of	  articles	  (4.19,	  20	  /	  B,	  23.27)	  of	  this	  law,	  the	  officer	  or	  employee	  in	  
charge	   shall	   reject	   any	   request	   for	   access	   to	   information	   if	   they	   contain:	  
	  
A. details	  of	  weapons	  and	  defensive	  tactics	  and	  strategies,	  and	  military	  forces	  or	  secret	  military	  
operations	  aimed	  at	  protecting	  the	  homeland;	  
B. Confidential	  matters	  relating	  to	  foreign	  policy	  affairs	  for	  defense	  and	  military	  alliances.	  
C. The	   information	   exchanged	   with	   other	   countries	   with	   whom	   it	   has	   been	   agreed	   to	   keep	   the	  
information	  confidential	  before	  the	  exchange	  or	  delivery	  of	  this	  information.	  
D. Information,	  if	  disclosed,	  may	  cause	  significant	  harm	  to:	  
1. A	  crime	  prevention	  or	  detection.	  
2. Arrest	  or	  prosecute	  offenders.	  
3. The	  administration	  of	  justice.	  

8

	  
E. Information,	  if	  disclosed,	  would	  lead	  to	  the	  disclosure	  of	  the	  identity	  of	  a	  confidential	  source	  
of	   information	   to	   that	   which	   the	   law	   enforcement	   officials	   have	   pledged	   to	   maintain	  
confidentiality.	  
F. The	   electronic	   information	   which,	   if	   disclosed,	   could	   cause	   penetration	   of	   protected	  
networks	  and	  equipment	  and	  may	  expose	  them	  to	  deletion	  or	  theft.	  
G. 	  Information	  of	  a	  commercial,	  financial	  or	  economic	  nature,	  or	  even	  industrial,	  or	  scientific	  
or	   technical	   researches,	   the	   disclosure	   of	   which	   would	   lead	   to	   the	   breaching	   of	   copyright	  
and	  intellectual	  property	  or	  of	  the	  fair	  and	  legitimate	  competition,	  or	  which	  would	  lead	  to	  
illegitimate	  profit	  or	  loss	  to	  any	  person	  or	  company.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (25):	  	  
Subject	   to	   the	   provisions	   of	   Articles	   (4,	   19.20	   /	   b,	   23)	   of	   the	   Act,	   the	   officer	   shall	   reject	   any	  
request	  

for	  

access	  

to	  

information	  

if	  

that	  

information	  

contains:	  

	  
A. Information	   which,	   if	   disclosed,	   may	   endanger	   the	   life	   of	   an	   individual	   or	   put	   his	   physical	  
safety	  at	  risk.	  
B. Personal	  data	  which,	  if	  disclosed,	  may	  be	  considered	  as	  an	  illogical	  violation	  to	  the	  privacy	  of	  
the	   individual,	   unless	   the	   personal	   data	   are	   connected	   to	   the	   duty	   or	   function	   or	   public	  
office	  held	  by	  that	  individual	  
	  	  
ARTICLE	  (26):	  	  
It	  is	  not	  permissible	  for	  the	  employee	  in	  charge	  to	  refuse	  to	  disclose	  the	  information	  contained	  
in	  the	  article	  (25)	  of	  this	  Act	  if:	  
A. This	  information	  was	  still	  in	  possession	  of	  the	  party	  and	  is	  older	  than	  thirty	  years.	  
B. This	  information	  has	  never	  been	  available	  to	  the	  public.	  
Chapter	  IV	  
Commissioner-­‐General	  of	  the	  Information	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (27):	  	  

9

Shall	   be	   established	   under	   the	   provisions	   of	   this	   law,	   the	   Office	   of	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   of	  
Information	   has	   a	   legal	   personality	   and	   independence	   necessary	   for	   the	   exercise	   of	   his	   office	  
functions.	  The	  office	  is	  allocated	  to	  a	  separate	  budget	  within	  the	  general	  budget	  of	  the	  state.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (28):	  	  
Office	   aims	   to	   ensure	   the	   implementation	   of	   the	   provisions	   of	   this	   law	   and	   to	   achieve	   the	  
desired	  goals,	  and	  in	  that	  respect,	  the	  office	  is	  to	  implement	  its	  duties	  and	  exercise	  the	  following	  
powers:	  
A. The	   development	   and	   organization	   of	   programs,	   plans	   and	   policies	   for	   the	   individual	   to	  
exercise	  his	  right	  to	  access	  and	  view	  the	  information.	  
B. To	   educate	   the	   citizens	   and	   raise	   awareness	   about	   the	   importance	   of	   his/her	   right	   to	   be	  
informed	  and	  access	  to	  information.	  
C. Contribute	  to	  training	  of	  staff	  and	  officials	  of	  the	  agencies	  on	  how	  to	  enable	  the	  individual	  to	  
have	  access	  to	  information	  and	  the	  importance	  of	  that.	  
D. The	   monitoring	   of	   violations	   and	   the	   publication	   of	   reports	   and	   studies	   that	   include	  
obstacles	   to	   the	   exercise	   of	   the	   right	   to	   be	   informed	   (of	   the	   information)	   and	   how	   to	  
overcome	  them.	  
E. Develop	   a	   standard	   form	   for	   requests	   for	   access	   to	   information	   from	   the	   concerned	  
authorities.	  
	  
	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (29):	  	  
The	  Office	  is	  considered	  to	  have	  oppressed	  whoever:	  
A. His	  request	  for	  access	  to	  information	  was	  refused	  
B. Charges	  were	  imposed	  on	  his	  request	  beyond	  those	  approved	  in	  this	  law.	  
C. His	   extended	   period	   of	   time	   required	   to	   answer	   his	   request	   was	   in	   violation	   to	   the	  
provisions	  of	  Article	  (19)	  of	  the	  Act.	  
D. His	  request	  was	  forwarded	  to	  more	  than	  one	  without	  approval.	  
E. Any	  other	  cases	  accepted	  by	  the	  Commissioner-­‐General	  of	  Information.	  

10

	  
ARTICLE	  (30):	  	  
Complaints	   must	   be	   submitted	   to	   the	   Office	   within	   thirty	   days	   from	   the	   date	   of	   receipt	   of	   the	  
applicant	  a	  rejection	  to	  his	  request.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (31):	  	  
The	   office	   has	   to	   answer	   to	   the	   complaint	   within	   a	   period	   not	   exceeding	   thirty	   days	   from	   the	  
date	   of	   its	   submission	   to	   him	   and	   the	   Office	   must	   immediately	   after	   receiving	   the	   complaint	  
send	  a	  letter	  to	  the	  employee	  in	  charge	  in	  the	  party	  that	  has	  rejected	  the	  request	  for	  access	  to	  
information,	  in	  which	  he	  will	  be	  informed	  of	  his	  complaint	  and	  will	  get	  a	  copy	  of	  the	  reasons	  that	  
the	  employee	  in	  charge	  has	  identified	  for	  refusal.	  And	  the	  Commissioner-­‐General	  who	  acts	  as	  an	  
arbitrator	  has	  to	  decide	  independently	  whether	  a	  refusal	  to	  disclose	  legal,	  or	  not	  shall	  be	  taken	  
and	   then	   bind	   the	   party	   of	   the	   necessity	   of	   meeting	   the	   demand	   within	   seven	   days	   of	   the	  
issuance	  of	  his	  decision.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (32):	  	  
It	   is	   permissible	   for	   the	   applicant,	   whose	   request	   was	   refused	   from	   the	   Office	   of	   the	  
Commissioner-­‐General	   to	   submit	   to	   the	   competent	   court	   spatially	   to	   consider	   it	   and	   issue	   its	  
ruling	  in	  haste	  during	  a	  period	  not	  to	  exceed	  thirty	  days,	  and	  the	  first	  instance	  judgment	  shall	  be	  
considered	  final	  and	  enforceable	  to	  the	  party	  over	  a	  period	  not	  to	  exceed	  seven	  days,	  while	  in	  
the	  case	  of	  dismissal	  of	  the	  law	  suit,	  then,	  the	  applicant	  may	  appeal	  within	  the	  period	  specified	  
by	  law.	  
	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (33):	  	  
The	  Office	  is	  headed	  by	  the	  Information	  Commissioner-­‐general	  in	  the	  rank	  of	  minister	  appointed	  
by	  the	  President	  of	  the	  Republic	  and	  he	  shall	  preside	  over	  the	  office	  for	  four	  years,	  renewable	  
for	  one	  time	  only.	  
	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (34):	  	  

11

It	  

is	  

stipulated	  

to	  

the	  

Commissioner-­‐General	  

the	  

following	  

conditions:	  

	  
A. Be	  a	  Yemeni	  national.	  
B. Be	  at	  least	  forty	  years	  of	  age.	  
C. Hold	  at	  least	  a	  university	  degree	  in	  information	  systems.	  
D. To	  be	  of	  good	  character	  and	  behavior,	  complying	  to	  the	  Islamic	  ordinances	  and	  that	  no	  
court	   order	   has	   been	   issued	   against	   him	   in	   a	   case	   involving	   moral	   and	   loyalty	   matters	  
unless	  he	  has	  been	  acquitted	  thereof	  
E. Have	  an	  administrative	  experience	  of	  no	  less	  than	  five	  years.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (35):	  	  
The	   Commissioner-­‐General	   is	   to	   follow	   up	   and	   issue	   decisions	   on	   appeals	   submitted	   to	   the	  
Office	  and	  the	  appointment	  of	  office	  staff	  and	  to	  implement	  a	  system	  of	  their	  own	  in	  order	  to	  
apply	  the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (36):	  	  
The	   Office	   of	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   shall	   have	   an	   administrative	   and	   technical	   structure	  
shown	  by	  the	  regulations	  of	  this	  law.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (37):	  	  
The	  Commissioner-­‐General	  of	  the	  Information	  is	  to	  devote	  himself	  to	  his	  work	  in	  the	  office	  and	  
shall	  not	  during	  his	  tenure	  of	  his	  job	  to	  act	  or	  hold	  an	  office	  or	  other	  function,	  whether	  paid	  or	  
unpaid.	  
	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (38):	  	  
The	   services	   of	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   shall	   end	   in	   the	   following	   conditions:	  
	  
A. If	  he	  is	  convicted	  of	  a	  felony	  or	  misdemeanor	  involving	  moral	  turpitude	  and	  loyalty	  
B. If	  he	  worked	  in	  any	  other	  position	  or	  rank	  
C. In	  the	  case	  of	  the	  death	  of	  the	  Commissioner-­‐General.	  

12

	  
ARTICLE	  (39):	  	  
If	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   was	   discharged	   of	   his	   service	   under	   section	   (39)	   of	   this	   Act,	   the	  
President	   shall	   appoint	   another	   Commissioner	   within	   (thirty)	   days	   from	   this	   discharge,	   in	  
accordance	  with	  the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (40):	  	  
The	   recommendations	   and	   decisions	   of	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   related	   to	   his	   duties	   in	  
accordance	  with	  the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law	  are	  considered	  binding	  on	  all	  parties.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (41):	  	  
For	   the	   purposes	   of	   the	   implementation	   of	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   of	   his	   functions,	   he	   has	  
the	  following	  powers:	  
A. Receive	  periodic	  reports	  from	  the	  parties	  specified	  in	  this	  Law,	  at	  his	  request.	  
B. 	  The	   right	   to	   enter	   any	   public	   institution	   and	   inspect	   its	   records,	   papers,	   and	   any	   related	  
evidences	  related	  to	  required	  information.	  
C. Investigation	  with	  any	  employee	  in	  isolation	  in	  order	  to	  reach	  the	  required	  information	  	  
D. Over	   whoever	   has	   concealed	   or	   destroyed	   information	   or	   amended	   information	  
contrary	  to	  its	  veracity	  for	  the	  purpose	  of	  evading	  its	  submission	  to	  the	  applicants.	  
E. Request	  clarification	  in	  writing	  from	  the	  senior	  state	  officials	  such	  as	  ministers	  and	  the	  
like	  on	  why	  they	  have	  concealed	  the	  information	  if	  this	  concealment	  is	  a	  result	  of	  orders	  
from	   them	   directly.	   The	   Commissioner-­‐General	   in	   this	   case	   and	   if	   he	   is	   not	   convinced	   of	  
all	   justifications	   offered	   has	   the	   right	   to	   submit	   the	   report	   to	   the	   House	   of	  
Representatives	  to	  take	  appropriate	  action.	  
F. Make	   decisions	   and	   recommendations	   to	   the	   authorities	   regarding	   the	   application	   of	  
the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (42):	  	  
The	  Commissioner-­‐General	  should	  submit	  periodic	  reports	  every	  four	  months	  and	  whenever	  the	  
need	   arises,	   to	   the	   President	   of	   the	   Republic,	   the	   House	   of	   Representatives,	   the	   Council	   of	  
Ministers,	  and	  these	  reports	  must	  contain:	  
A. Cases	  of	  unjustified	  refrain	  from	  providing	  information.	  

13

B. Operational	  problems	  he	  is	  facing	  in	  the	  implementation	  of	  his	  functions.	  
C. Works	  and	  activities	  of	  the	  Office	  on	  the	  right	  of	  access	  to	  information.	  
D. Any	  other	  topics	  that	  the	  Commissioner-­‐General	  considers	  appropriate.	  

ARTICLE	  (43):	  	  
The	  headquarter	  office	  shall	  be	  in	  the	  capital,	  Sana’a,	  and	  there	  may	  be	  branches	  in	  the	  capital	  
and	  other	  provinces.	  
	  
PART	  III	  
PROTECTION	  OF	  INFORMATION	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (44):	  	  
Each	  party	  keeps	  a	  safe	  reserve,	  including	  copies	  of	  all	  that	  information	  in	  its	  possession	  relating	  
to	  its	  mandate	  and	  its	  official	  activities,	  and	  this	  takes	  into	  account	  the	  introduction	  of	  means	  
and	  modern	  mechanisms	  to	  save	  the	  information	  to	  minimize	  space	  and	  places	  of	  archives	  and	  
the	  use	  of	  modern	  indexing,	  which	  facilitates	  access	  to	  information.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (45):	  	  
It	  is	  not	  permissible	  to	  exploit	  the	  failure	  or	  absence	  of	  the	  security	  systems	  of	  the	  information	  
in	  order	  to	  execute	  an	  illegal	  act	  that	  which	  would	  cause	  harm	  to	  the	  information.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (46):	  	  
There	   shall	   be	   established	   within	   a	   unit	   of	   information	   on	   each	   side	   an	   appropriate	  
administrative	  level	  that	  is	  specialized	  in	  the	  supervision	  and	  control	  over	  the	  application	  of	  the	  
security	  standards	  related	  to	  the	  information	  provided	  in	  all	  parties.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (47):	  	  
Each	  one	  of	  the	  information	  systems	  used	  by	  the	  different	  parties	  must	  have	  the	  ability	  to	  verify	  
and	  establish	  the	  responsibility	  of	  actions	  in	  the	  entry,	  processing,	  preservation	  and	  retrieval	  of	  
information	  and	  in	  the	  access	  to	  the	  system	  and	  all	  data	  contained	  in	  it.	  

14

	  
ARTICLE	  (48):	  	  
All	   systems	   and	   application	   software	   that	   are	   introduced,	   built	   and	   used	   by	   the	   different	   parties	  
must	   have	   the	   security	   standards	   that	   ensure	   reliability	   and	   safety	   of	   regular	   operation,	   and	  
these	  security	  standards	  shall	  be	  developed	  regularly,	  and	  in	  a	  timely	  manner.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (49):	  	  
All	   parties	   have	   to	   set	   and	   apply	   the	   rules	   and	   the	   administrative,	   technical	   and	   physical	  
procedures,	   to	   protect	   information	   systems	   and	   networks	   and	   ensure	   their	   continuity	   and	  
regularity	  of	  operation.	  
	  
PART	  IV	  
PRIVACY	  POLICY	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (50):	  	  
It	  is	  not	  permissible	  for	  any	  party	  to	  collect,	  process,	  save	  and	  use	  of	  personal	  data	  of	  the	  citizen,	  
contrary	  to	  the	  Constitution	  and	  the	  laws	  in	  force.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (51):	  	  
The	  collection,	  processing,	  storage	  and	  use	  by	  any	  party	  of	  the	  personal	  data	  shall	  be	  limited	  to	  
the	   powers	   and	   functions	   of	   this	   official	   party	   who	   is	   authorized	   to	   do	   so	   as	   necessary	   for	  
performance	  of	  her	  functions.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (52):	  	  
Taking	   into	   account	   the	   articles	   (26),	   (54)	   the	   party	   that	   is	   storing	   the	   personal	   data	   may	   not	  
disseminate	  these	  personal	  data	  or	  give	  them	  to	  a	  third	  party	  except	  with	  a	  written	  consent	  by	  
those	  connected	  to	  the	  data.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (53):	  	  
It	  is	  not	  permissible	  to	  provide	  personal	  data	  to	  any	  state	  or	  other	  third-­‐party	  that	  does	  not	  have	  
the	  same	  legal	  safeguards	  to	  protect	  privacy.	  

15

	  
ARTICLE	  (54):	  	  
It	  is	  not	  permissible	  for	  any	  party	  to	  use	  the	  personal	  data	  for	  purposes	  other	  than	  that	  which	  
they	  were	  collected	  for.	  
	  
ARTICLE	  (55):	  
Each	   party	   that	   is	   collecting	   and	   maintaining	   personal	   data	   has	   to	   follow	   systems	   and	  
procedures	  that	  provide	  systems	  to	  update	  the	  personal	  data.	  And	  whoever	  is	  related	  to	  these	  
data	  has	  to	  provide	  all	  that	  is	  necessary	  to	  update	  them.
	  
ARTICLE	  (56):	  
Each	  party	  that	  is	  storing	  personal	  data	  is	  fully	  responsible	  for	  the	  protection	  of	  these	  data	  and	  
the	   development	   of	   an	   approved	   privacy	   statement	   that	   would	   show	   the	   systems	   and	  
procedures	  for	  dealing	  with	  confidentiality	  of	  personal	  data	  and	  their	  availability	  to	  be	  viewed.
	  
ARTICLE	  (57):	  
Whoever	  offers	  his	  personal	  data	  is	  entitled	  to	  access	  those	  data	  that	  he	  had	  submitted	  and	  he	  
is	  to	  check	  its	  safety	  or	  to	  submit	  additional	  information	  for	  correction	  and	  update	  purposes.
	  
PART	  V
OFFENSES	  AND	  SANCTIONS
	  
ARTICLE	  (58):	  
A	   penalty	   of	   imprisonment	   for	   a	   term	   not	   exceeding	   one	   year	   or	   a	   fine	   of	   not	   less	   than	   one	  
hundred	  and	  fifty	  thousand	  riyals	  to	  each	  one	  who	  has	  concealed	  any	  information	  due	  to	  look	  at	  
and	  deliberately	  under	  the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law.
	  

ARTICLE	  (59):	  
A	   penalty	   of	   imprisonment	   for	   a	   period	   of	   not	   less	   than	   three	   months	   and	   not	   exceeding	   one	  
year	  or	  a	  fine	  of	  not	  less	  than	  one	  hundred	  and	  fifty	  thousand	  riyals	  to	  each	  one	  who	  has	  given	  
information	  for	  the	  purpose	  of	  misleading	  the	  applicant.

16

	  
ARTICLE	  (60):	  
A	  penalty	  of	  imprisonment	  for	  a	  period	  of	  not	  less	  than	  three	  months	  or	  a	  fine	  of	  not	  less	  than	  
one	   hundred	   and	   fifty	   thousand	   riyals	   	   to	   each	   employee	   who	   has	   violated	   deliberately	   the	  
provisions	  of	  articles	  (18-­‐23),	  (25-­‐27),	  (51-­‐55),	  58)	  of	  this	  law.
	  
ARTICLE	  (61):	  
A	  penalty	  of	  imprisonment	  for	  a	  period	  of	  not	  less	  than	  two	  years	  or	  a	  fine	  of	  not	  less	  than	  five	  
hundred	  thousand	  riyals	  to	  every	  person	  who	  has	  deliberately	  violated	  the	  provisions	  of	  Article	  
(11)	  of	  the	  Act

PART	  VI
GENERAL	  AND	  FINAL	  PROVISIONS
ARTICLE	  (62):	  
National	   Information	   Center	   is	   one	   of	   those	   parties	   that	   collect	   and	   analyze	   information	   and	  
maintain	  them	  for	  submission	  upon	  request,	  in	  accordance	  with	  the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law.
	  
ARTICLE	  (63):	  
It	   is	   permissible	   for	   any	   party	   to	   provide	   information,	   except	   for	   the	   personal	   data,	   to	   the	  
National	  information	  Center	  and	  it	  is	  allowed	  to	  request	  this	  information	  to	  that	  party	  and	  /	  or	  
the	   National	   Information	   Center.	   Also,	   the	   party	   has	   no	   right	   to	   justify	   non-­‐disclosure	   of	  
information	  under	  this	  Act	  on	  the	  grounds	  that	  the	  information	  has	  been	  or	  is	  being	  submitted	  
or	  forwarded	  to	  the	  National	  information	  Center.
	  
ARTICLE	  (64):	  
Any	  provision	  contrary	  to	  the	  provisions	  of	  this	  law	  shall	  be	  deleted.
	  

ARTICLE	  (65):	  
The	  executive	  regulations	  of	  this	  law	  shall	  be	  issued	  by	  the	  President	  of	  the	  Republic	  (after	  its	  
issuance)	   by	   the	   Commissioner-­‐General	   within	   a	   period	   not	   exceeding	   six	   months	   from	   the	   date	  
of	  issuance	  of	  this	  law.	  

17

Article	  (66)	  
This	  law	  gets	  into	  force	  the	  date	  it	  was	  issued	  and	  it	  is	  to	  be	  published	  in	  the	  official	  journal.	  
	  
Issued	  in	  the	  presidency	  of	  the	  republic	  in	  Sana’a	  
On	  DATE	  
	  
Abd	  Rabbou	  Mansour	  Hadi	  
President	  

18

