Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

THE BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES
ACT, 2017
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section
PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
1. Short title and commencement
2. Interpretation
3. Application of Act
4. Relationship with other Acts
PART II
LICENSING OF FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS
5. Types of licences
6. Providing banking business, financial business or financial
services without licence
7. Application for banking, financial business or financial
institution licence
8. Grant of licence
9. Display of licence
10. Rejection of application for licence
11. Validity of licence
12. Authorised activities of banks
13. Transfer, pledge, assignment, encumbrance of licence
14. Variation of licence
15. Amendment of licence
16. Surrender of licence
17. Suspension or cancellation of licence
18. Loss or damage of licence
19. Opening branches, subsidiaries and other establishments
20. Representative office
21. Register of financial service providers
22. Publication of financial service providers
23. Appointment of Registrar and Deputy Registrars
24. Financial inclusion
Single copies of this Act may be obtained from the Government Printer,
P.O. Box 30136, 10101 Lusaka, Price K 184.00 each.

181

182

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

PART III
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OF FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

Limit on voting control
Divestment of control
Ownership
Prohibition of ownership of shares by trusts
Corporate restructuring transactions
Requirements for corporate restructuring transaction
Effect of corporate restructuring transaction

41.
42.

PART IV
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Responsibilities of Directors
Board meetings
Qualifications of directors, chief executive officers, chief
financial officers
Non-executive directors to be in majority
Reporting obligations of Board and directors
Conduct of directors, chief executive officers, chief financial
officers and managers
Disclosure of interest
False statement and obstruction of examinations
Suspension or dismissal of directors and senior officers by
Bank and removal of shareholders
Fit and proper requirements
Corporate governance

43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.

PART V
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Principal administrative office
Use and alteration of name
Business hours
Bank holiday
Records to be registered and maintained
Credit documentation
Manner of keeping records
Retention of records
Maintenance of records

32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

PART VI
PRUDENTIAL REGULATION AND SUPERVISION
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.

Minimum capital requirements
Capital conservation buffer
Countercyclical capital buffer
Restriction on payment of dividends
Leverage ratio
Maintenance of liquidity
Constraints on contracts with associated person
Examination of financial service provider
Submission of returns
Consolidated supervision
Affiliates and crossborder supervision
Unsafe and unsound practices
Supervisory actions
Financial service provider suffering large losses
Under-capitalised financial service provider
Significantly under-capitalised financial service provider
Corrective actions against financial businesses
Modification, cancellation and upholding of regulatory
statement
Notice of taking possession
Powers and duties of Bank on taking possession
Statement of affairs of assets and liabilities on taking
possession
Actions where financial service provider is solvent
Actions where financial service provider is insolvent
Application to Court for termination of possession
Effects of possession
Restructuring and reorganisation
Refusal of restructuring or reorganisation
Restriction on execution of judgment
Recovery of expenses

183

184

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

PART VII
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSACTIONS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.

Secured borrowing
Limitations on granting credit facilities
Restriction on trade
Restriction on equity investments
Restriction on lease or other interest in real property
Limits, restrictions and prohibition on financial business and
alternative financial services
87. Exemption of alternative financial services
PART VIII
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTABILITY
88. Annual financial statement
89. Presentation of annual financial statement to shareholders
90. Reserve for bad and doubtful debts
91. Approval of annual financial statements
92. Publication of annual financial statements
93. Appointment of external auditor
94. Responsibilities of external auditor
95. Information by external auditor to Bank
96. Disqualification of external auditor
97. Access to information and auditor’s report
98. Termination of appointment of external auditor
99. Statement on resignation of external auditor
100. Termination of appointment of external auditor by financial
service provider
PART IX
ANTI-COMPETITIVE ACTIVITIES AND CONSUMER PROTECTION
101. Collusive conduct
102. Collateral contracts
103. Coercive behaviour
104. Misconduct during debt collection
105. Determination of benchmark base rate
106. Disclosure of interest rates and charges
107. Increase in service charges

Banking and Financial Services
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.

120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.

[No. 7 of 2017

Responsible lending
Prohibition against penal interest
Recoverable amounts on non-performing loan
Data protection and disclosure of information
Prohibition of anti-competitive practice
Complaints procedure for customers
Ombudsperson for financial service providers
Control of advertisements
Prohibition of unfair business practices
Prohibition of charges on prepayment
Unfair contract terms
Recognition of other laws
PART X
INSOLVENCY, DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION OF FINANCIAL
SERVICE PROVIDERS
Acceptance of deposits by insolvent financial service
providers
Resolution to voluntarily wind-up or dissolve financial service
provider
Duties of financial service provider on voluntary windingup or dissolution
Notice of voluntary winding-up or dissolution
Rights of depositors and creditors
Distribution of assets on voluntary winding-up or dissolution
Powers of Bank where assets insufficient or completion
unduly delayed
Powers of Bank in compulsory winding-up or dissolution
Powers of liquidator
Immunity of Bank against depositor or creditor claims
Limitation of filing of claims
Objection to liquidation schedule
Priority of creditors
Undistributed funds
Final distribution in compulsory winding-up or dissolution
Restriction of action by third parties
Power of Bank in relation to insolvent financial business

185

186

No. 7 of 2017]

137.
138.
139.
140.
141.

Banking and Financial Services

PART XI
COMPLAINTS AND APPEALS PROCESS
Reasons for decisions and right to be heard
Right of appeal
Appointment and convening of tribunal
Powers of tribunal
Decisions of tribunal
PART XII
GENERAL PROVISIONS

142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.

Investigations
Access to documents
Offences committed partly in and partly out of Zambia
Continuing acts or offences
Actions by Bank on conviction for offence
Use of word “bank”
Restriction on use of name to indicate banking or financial
business or financial service provider
Validity of certain acts by financial service providers
Power to summon officers, directors and shareholders
Submission of information and documents to Bank
Alternative financial services
Publication of information
Extension of time limits
False document
Immunity of officer, agent or employee of Bank
Money circulation schemes
Utilisation of collateral for settlement of certain obligations
Special reserve or liability insurance
Unclaimed funds and personal property
Delegated supervision
Exemptions
General penalty
Offence by body corporate or unincorporated body
Administrative penalties
Industry reports
Regulatory statements
Rules
Regulations
Repeal of Cap. 387
Savings and transitional provisions

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

187

GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA

ACT
No. 7 of 2017
Date of Assent 12th April, 2017:
An Act to provide for a licensing system for the conduct of
banking or financial business and provision of financial
services; to provide for the incorporation of standards,
principles and concepts of corporate governance in institutional systems and structures of banks and financial institutions; to provide for sound business practices and
consumer protection mechanisms; to provide for the regulation and supervision of banking and financial services;
to repeal and replace the Banking and Financial Services
Act,1994; and to provide for matters connected with, or
incidental to, the foregoing.
[13th April, 2017
ENACTED by the Parliament of Zambia.

Enactment

PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
1. This Act may be cited as the Banking and Financial Services
Act, 2017 and shall come into operation on the date appointed by
the Minister by statutory instrument.
2.

(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“ advance ” means—
(a) any direct or indirect payment of monies, a loan or an
extension of credit to a person or common enterprise—
(i) made on the basis of an obligation of that person
or common enterprise repaying the funds; or
(ii) repayable from specific property pledged by, or
on behalf of, a person or common enterprise;

Short Title
and
Commencement
Interpretation

188

No. 7 of 2017]

Act No. of
2017

Cap. 1

Banking and Financial Services

(b) the credit risks arising from actual claims, potential claims
and credit substitutes; or
(c) a commitment to extend credit or acquire a debt security
or other right to payment of a sum of money;
“ alternative financial service ” means a financial service
that applies specific regulatory rules based on religious
principles;
“ associated person ” means—
(a) a company in which a person is a manager or director;
(b) each person that beneficially owns shares in the same
company;
(c) a third person that owns or exercises, or is capable of
exercising, directly or indirectly, significant control over
a company or person referred to in paragraph (a) or
(b);
(d) persons that are in a partnership;
(e) persons that are both members of a voting trust or other
arrangement relating to shares, except that this paragraph
does not apply to a financial business where—
(i) two or more persons are affiliated if the persons
are companies that are controlled by the same
person; and
(ii) a company is the subsidiary of another company
and if more than fifty percent of the issued voting
shares of the company, other than qualifying
directors’ shares, are owned directly or indirectly
by the other company; or
(f) the spouse, parent, child, brother or sister of a person, or
of the person’s parent, child, brother or sister; and
“ associate and association ” shall be construed accordingly;
“ articles of association ” has the meaning assigned to the
term in the Companies Act, 2017;
“ bank ” means a company authorised to conduct banking
business in accordance with this Act;
“ Bank ” means the Bank of Zambia established in accordance
with the Constitution;
“ banking licence ” means a licence specified in section 5 and
granted in accordance with section 8;
“ banking business ” means—

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(a) receiving deposits, including chequeing and current account deposits, and the use of the deposits, either in
whole or in part, for the account and at the risk of the
person carrying on the business to make loans, advances
or investments;
(b) providing financial services; and
(c) any custom, practice or activity, prescribed in rules issued
by the Bank, as banking business;
“ beneficial owner ” means an individual who—
(a) exercises control over a financial service provider, legal
person or arrangement; or
(b) owns or controls a customer or the person on whose behalf
a transaction is conducted and, where two or more
persons are associated through the beneficial ownership
of shares in the same company, each person shall be a
beneficial owner of the aggregate number of shares of
the company;
“ board ” means the governing body of a financial service
provider;
“ body corporate ” has the meaning assigned to the word in
the Companies Act, 2017;
“ borrower ” includes a person who becomes indebted to a
financial service provider due to a guarantee made for the
repayment of an amount owed by another person;
“ branch” means the permanent premises, other than the head
office, at which a financial service provider conducts
business in or outside Zambia;
“ branchless banking” means the provision of banking services
or financial services without relying on physical branches;
“ bridge bank ” means an institution created by the Bank to
temporarily operate a failed bank or financial institution
until a buyer is found for its operations;
“ capital adequacy ” means the legal capital prescribed by
the Bank in terms of money or assets invested or available
for investment in the business that is sufficient for the
sustainability of the financial service provider;
“ capital conservation buffer ” means the mandatory capital
that financial institutions are required to hold, in addition to
minimum capital requirements, as prescribed, to be drawn
down when losses are incurred during periods of stress;

189

Act No. of
2017

190

No. 7 of 2017]

Act No. of
2017

Banking and Financial Services

“chief executive officer” means the person engaged by a
financial service provider who is responsible, under the
immediate authority of the board, for the conduct of banking
business or financial services for the financial service
provider;
“ chief financial officer ” means a person responsible for
maintaining the accounts and accounting records of a
financial service provider;
“ chief risk officer ” means a senior employee of a financial
service provider with distinct responsibility for risk
management functions and the financial service provider’s
enterprise-wide risk management framework;
“ company ” has the meaning assigned to the word in the
Companies Act, 2017;
“ common enterprise ” means an undertaking of two or more
persons with an equal right to direct and benefit from the
undertaking and where the negligence of any of the persons
may be imputed to the others;
“ common equity tier one ” means the sum of the following:
(a) paid-up common shares issued by a financial service provider;
(b) share premium, resulting from the issue of common shares;
(c) retained earnings;
(d) accumulated comprehensive income and other disclosed
reserves;
(e) common shares issued by consolidated subsidiaries of the
financial service provider and held by a third party that
meets the criteria prescribed by the Bank, for inclusion
in common equity tier one capital; and
(f) regulatory adjustments, applied in the calculation of the
common equity tier one, as prescribed by the Bank;
“ compliance officer ” means a senior employee of the
financial service provider with overall responsibility for
coordinating the identification and management of the
financial service provider’s compliance risk and supervising
the activities of the other employees responsible for the
compliance functions of the financial service provider;
“confidential information” means information that is not public, regarding—

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(a) the nature, amount or purpose of any payment made by
or to a person;
(b) the recipient of a payment made by a person;
(c) the assets, liabilities, financial resources or financial condition of a person;
(d) the business or family relations of a customer; or
(e) any information of a personal nature that the customer
disclosed, in confidence to the financial service provider;
“ consumer ” has the meaning assigned to the word in the
Competition and Consumer Protection Act, 2010;
“ control ” means the control of a financial service provider
by a person that –
(a) beneficially owns more than one half of the issued share
capital of the company;
(b) is entitled to cast a majority of the votes that may be cast
at a general meeting of the company, or has the ability
to control the casting of a majority of those votes, either
directly or through a controlled entity of that person;
(c) is able to appoint or to veto the appointment of a majority
of the directors of the company;
(d) is a holding company and the financial service provider is
a subsidiary of that company as provided for in the
Companies Act, 2017; or
(e) has the ability to significantly influence the management,
policy and affairs of the financial service provider in a
manner comparable to a person who, in ordinary
commercial practice, can exercise an element of control
referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d);
“ corporate ” means a legal entity, including a company or
body corporate, that is separate and distinct from its owners
and which is recognised as such by law and acts as a
single entity;
“ corporate restructuring transaction ” means a merger, takeover, amalgamation, reconstruction or acquisition where
an entity, directly or indirectly, acquires or establishes
control over the whole or part of the business of a financial
service provider or where two or more financial service
providers and another entity agree to adopt arrangements
for common ownership or control over the whole or part
of the business of a financial service provider, and includes
such arrangements by an entity outside Zambia which affect
a financial service provider in Zambia;

191

Act No. 24
of 2010

Act No. of
2017

192

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

“ counter cyclical capital buffer ” means an amount of capital prescribed by the Bank to be maintained by banks and
financial institutions where there is excessive buildup of
credit that is likely to lead to a system wide risk;
“ Court ” means the High Court of Zambia;
“ credit facility ” includes an advance, loan, financial guarantee or any other liability incurred by a person;
“ customer identification data ” means—
(a) in the case of a natural person, the person’s
(i) name, including any forename or maiden name;
(ii) permanent address;
(iii) telephone number, fax number or email address;
(iv) date and place of birth;
(v) nationality;
(vi) occupation or public office held and the name of
the employer;
(vii) official personal identification number or other
unique identifier contained in a valid official
document that bears a photograph of the person;
(viii) bank or other type of account and the nature of
the relationship the person has with a financial
service provider; and
(ix) signature; and
(b) in the case of a corporate, that corporate’s—
(i) registered name;
(ii) principal place of business;
(iii) mailing address;
(iv) contact telephone, fax number or electronic mail
address;
(v) official identification number, such as the tax
identification number or official registration
number;
(vi) documents such as the original or certified copy
of the certificate of incorporation, registration,
articles of association or other internal governing
rules confirming the legal existence of the account holder; and

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(vii) board resolution to open an account and the
identification documents of the persons
authorised to operate the account.;
“deposit” means—
(a) an amount of money received by a bank or financial
institution in the ordinary course of business that—
(i) the bank or financial institution may transform into
assets at its own risk;
(ii) is repayable on demand or at a specified or
unspecified date, or on terms agreed to, by, or
on behalf of, the person making the payments;
(b) an outstanding draft, a cashier’s cheque, money order or
other officer’s cheque issued by the bank or financial
institution and drawn on a customer’s funds for any
purpose, in the ordinary course of business; or
(c) such other obligations of a bank or financial institution as
the Bank may prescribe by rules issued in accordance
with this Act;
excluding electronic money and instruments issued by a bank
or financial institution in respect of an advance or for
the purpose of fulfilling a payment for goods supplied or
services rendered to the Bank;
“ Deputy Registrar ” means a person holding office or acting
as a Deputy Registrar of Financial Service Providers
appointed in accordance with this Act;
“ director ” means a natural person who holds office as a
member of a board;
“ discretionary payments ” means any payments or
distributions, other than dividends, that are within the
discretion of the financial service provider to make and, if
not paid by the financial service provider, are not an event
of default, including staff bonuses;
“ equity interest in a person ” means
(a) in the case of a company, any share issued by a company,
the terms of which entitle the registered holder or bearer
to a share in the profits of the company; or
(b) in the case of a partnership, association or other body of
persons acting in concert, any right to share in the profits
of that partnership, association or other body of persons
acting in concert;

193

194

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

“ equity interest in a property or undertaking ” means an
ownership interest, and includes any right to share in the
profits of the operation or proceeds of disposition of the
property or undertaking;
“ financing ” means the act or process of raising or providing
funds;
“ fit and proper requirements ” means the criteria set by the
Bank in accordance with section 41 and as the Bank may
prescribe;
“ financial business ” means a body corporate that conducts
a financial service business, excluding acceptance of
deposits;
“ financial business licence ” means a licence specified in
section 5(b) and granted in accordance with section 8;
“ financial derivative ” means a contract between two or
more parties whose value is based on an agreed upon
underlying financial asset, index or security;
“ financial institution ” means a company, other than a bank,
providing a financial service;
“ financial institution’s licence ” means a licence specified in
section 5(c) and granted in accordance with section 8;
“ financial sector ” means the subsector of the economy
concerned with or related to financial, banking and
monetary matters and provision of banking and financial
services to commercial and retail customers including banks,
investment funds and capital markets;
“ financial service ” means any one or more of the following
services:
(a) commercial or consumer financing services;
(b) brokering;
(c) factoring, with or without recourse;
(d) finance leasing;
(e) financing of commercial transactions, including forfeiting;
(f) issue and administration of credit cards, debit cards,
traveller’s cheques or banker’s drafts;
(g) issue of guarantees, performance bonds or letters of credit,
excluding those issued by insurance companies;
(h) lending on the security of, or dealing in, mortgages or any
interest in real property;

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(i) payment of cheques or other demand orders drawn or
issued by customers and payable from deposits held by
the payer;
(j) purchase and sale of foreign exchange;
(k) issue of debentures and money market instruments;
(l) the acceptance of deposits;
(m) issue of building society and mutual society shares, with
characteristics similar or identical to deposits;
(n) venture capital funding;
(o) micro-financing;
(p) development financing; and
(q) any other service that the Bank may designate, excluding
the underwriting, marketing or administration of contracts
of insurance or reinsurance;
“ financial service provider ” means a bank, financial institution
or financial business;
“ foreign financial service provider ” means a financial service
provider that is not incorporated in Zambia;
“ foreign company ” has the meaning assigned to the word in
the Companies Act, 2017;
“ insider ” means—
(a) an officer, director or principal shareholder of a bank or
financial institution;
(b) a person who participates or has the authority to participate
in major policy making functions of a bank or financial
institution, whether or not employed by the bank or
financial institution;
(c) a bank or financial institution in which a person referred
to in paragraph (a) or (b) owns, directly or indirectly,
alone or with one or more other persons specified in the
paragraphs, more than twenty percent of the shares; or
(d) a company in which a bank or a financial institution owns
more than ten percent of the outstanding shares;
“ insolvency ” means a situation where a financial service
provider —
(a) is unable to pay debts as they fall due;
(b) has assets that are insufficient to meet liabilities; or
(c) has regulatory capital which is below the prescribed
minimum;

195

Act No. of
2017

196

No. 7 of 2017]

Act No. of
2017

Act No. of
2017

Cap. 30

Banking and Financial Services

“ licence ” means a banking licence, financial institution licence, or financial business licence as the case may be;
“ licensee ” means a financial service provider holding a licence;
“manager” means an officer of a financial service provider
who is in a position to control, direct or influence
decisionmaking in a matter relating to banking business or
financial services;
“ meeting ” has the meaning assigned to the word in the
Companies Act, 2017;
“merchant banking” includes the underwriting of securities
for corporations, advising on and arranging finance for
mergers and takeover bids, the financing of foreign trade
by accepting bills of exchange, underwriting new issues
and investment management;
“ money circulation scheme ” means a plan, arrangement,
agreement or understanding, between two or more persons
that involves the pooling and distribution of funds by
recruitment of subscribers, and which, for its continuous
existence and realisation of its benefits, substantially
depends on the incremental recruitment of subscribers for
an unspecified period;
“ money market instrument ” means a negotiable instrument
with an original term to maturity of three hundred and
sixtyfive days or less;
“ name ” means the name by which a financial service provider
is incorporated as provided by the Companies Act, 2017;
“ nominee shareholder ” means a person whose name appears
on a company’s register as the registered shareholder but
who holds the shares on behalf of another person;
“ nonperforming loan ” means a loan in respect of which
payment of principal or interest is in arrears for more than
ninety days;
“ physical presence ” means the physical location of a financial
service provider within Zambia, or the control of the financial
service provider;
“ practitioner ” has the meaning assigned to the word in the
Legal Practitioners Act;
“ primary capital ” means the sum of the—
(a) common equity tier one; and

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(b) additional tier one capital, as prescribed by the Bank by
rules issued in accordance with this Act;
“ principal administrative office ” means the office in which
the overall administration of the affairs of a financial service
provider, other than its banking business or financial service
business, is carried on;
“ Register ” means the Register of Financial Service Providers
established and maintained in accordance with section 21;
“ Registrar ” means the person holding office or acting as the
Registrar of Financial Service Providers appointed in
accordance with this Act;
“ Registrar of Companies ” means the person appointed as
Registrar in accordance with the Patents and Companies
Registration Agency Act, 2010;
“ Registrar of Lands and Deeds ” means a person appointed
as a Registrar in accordance with the Lands and Deeds
Registry Act;
“ regulatory capital ” means the sum of the—
(a) primary capital; and
(b) secondary capital, as prescribed by the Bank, in rules
issued in accordance with this Act;
“ related party transaction ” means a transaction in which
two or more persons, by virtue of their relationship, benefit
severally or jointly from funds or services arising from a
transaction involving any one of them and a financial service provider;
“ regulatory statement ” means directives, guidelines, orders,
circulars and bulletins issued by the Bank for the efficacious
implementation of this Act, regulations and rules issued in
accordance with this Act;
“ repealed Act ” means the Banking and Financial Services
Act, 1994;
“ representative office ” means an office in Zambia belonging
to or representing a foreign financial service provider;
“ senior officer ” means a chief executive officer, chief
financial officer, manager or other management personnel
of a financial service provider;
“ shell bank ” means a bank which does not have a physical
presence in the country in which it is incorporated and
licenced and which is unaffiliated with a regulated group
to any financial service that is subject to consolidated
statutory regulation supervision;

197

Act No. 15
of 2010
Cap.185

Cap. 387

198

No. 7 of 2017]

Act No. of
2017

Act No. 13
of 2008

Banking and Financial Services

“significant shareholding” means a direct or indirect
shareholding or beneficial interest of ten percent or more
of the share capital of a financial service provider, and the
words “significant shareholder” shall be construed
accordingly;
“ subsidiary ” has the meaning assigned to the word in the
Companies Act, 2017;
“ tribunal ” means an ad hoc tribunal to determine appeals
constituted in accordance with section 139;
“ unsafe and unsound practice ” means—
(a) conducting the affairs of a financial service provider in a
manner that is;
(i) detrimental to the stability of the financial sector
or the interests of depositors and creditors;
(ii) prejudicial to the interest of the financial service
provider; or
(iii) in contravention of this Act or any other relevant
written law;
(b) accumulating a high volume of nonperforming loans;
(c) making secured loans based on inadequate collateral;
(d) maintaining an inadequate level of reserves for loan losses;
(e) maintaining an inadequate level of common equity capital;
(f) advancing loans without regard to the borrower’s ability
to pay;
(g) maintaining inadequate liquidity; or
(h) any other practice that the Bank may designate as unsafe
and unsound practice;
“ venture capital funding ” means risk capital given by
investors to start up small or medium sized businesses with
perceived high growth potential, and includes the
mobilisation of funds from various sources in risky projects
that would not normally attract conventional finance;
“ voting shares ” means common shares in the capital of a
financial service provider and any other shares of any
designation or description that carry the right to vote on a
resolution at a meeting; and
“ Zambia Institute of Chartered Accountants ” means the
Institute established in accordance with the Accountants
Act, 2008.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise provides, words
and expressions used and which are not defined, but are defined in
the Companies Act, 2017, the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, the
Securities Act, 2016, or any other relevant Act, shall have the
meaning assigned to them in those Acts.
3. (1) This Act applies to all financial service providers.
(2) This Act does not apply to—
(a) the Bank, except in so far as it expressly imposes a duty
on the Bank; and
(b) a person registered in accordance with the Money Lenders
Act.
4. (1) Where any written law relating to, or impacting on,
banking business or financial services is inconsistent with this Act,
the provisions of this Act shall, to the extent of the inconsistency,
prevail.
(2) Despite subsection (1), where there is an inconsistency
between this Act and the Securities Act, 2016 in relation to the
regulation of securities, the Securities Act, 2016 shall prevail to the
extent of the inconsistency.
PART II
LICENSING OF FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS
5. The following licences shall be issued by the Bank in
accordance with this Act:
(a) a banking licence, which shall authorise a licensee to
conduct a banking business;
(b) a financial business licence, which shall authorise a
licensee to conduct a financial business; and
(c) a financial institution licence, which shall authorise a
licensee to provide a financial service.
6. (1) A company shall not conduct a banking business without
a banking licence.
(2) A body corporate shall not conduct a financial business
without a financial business licence, or provide a financial service
without a financial institution licence.
(3) A person that contravenes this section commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
four years, or to both.

199

Act No. of
2017
Act No. of
2017
Act No.41 of
2016
Application
of Act

Cap. 398
Relationship with
other Acts

Act No. 41
of 2016
Act No. 41
of 2016

Types of
Licences

Providing
banking
business,
financial
business or
financial
services
without
licence

200

No. 7 of 2017]

Application
for banking,
financial
business or
financial
institution
licence

Banking and Financial Services

7. (1) An application for a banking licence, financial institution licence or financial business licence shall be made in the prescribed manner and form.
(2) An application for a licence, specified in subsection (1),
shall be accompanied by the prescribed application fee and shall
have attached to it or contain the following:
(a) articles of association or other constitutive documents;
(b) physical and postal addresses of the principal administrative
office;
(c) permanent residential addresses of theapplicant’s directors,
chief executive officer, managers;
(d) name and permanent residential address of every
subscriber for any class or series of shares issued by
the applicant;
(e) addresses of each branch proposed to be opened by the
applicant and, in the case of a mobile office, the area
proposed to be served;
(f) full particulars of the business it proposes to conduct;
(g) amount of the applicant’s capital; and
(h) names of the applicant’s associates and affiliates.
(3) An applicant may withdraw an application for a licence,
by notice in writing to the Bank, in the prescribed manner and
form, at any time before the licence is granted or the application is
rejected.
(4) The Bank shall, in considering an application for a licence,
made in accordance with subsection (1), have regard to the
(a) capital adequacy of the applicant;
(b) financial condition, resources and history of the applicant;
(c) applicant’s associates and affiliates;
(d) transparency of the legal, operational, managerial,
governance and ownership structures;
(e) character and experience of the directors, significant
shareholders, beneficial owners, founders or persons
proposing to be concerned in the management of the
banking business, financial business or financial service;
(f) convenience and needs of the community intended to be
served by the banking or financial business or provision
of a financial service; and
(g) prospects for the profitable operation of the banking or
financial service business.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

8. (1) Where an applicant meets the requirements of this Act,
the Bank shall, within one hundred and twenty days of receipt of
an application for a licence made in accordance with section 7,
grant a licence.

201

Grant of
licence

(2) A banking licence, financial business licence or financial
institution licence for a subsidiary of a foreign company may be
granted if—
(a) the foreign company is a financial service provider and is
authorised to engage in banking business in the country
where its principal place of business is located; and
(b) the Bank determines that the foreign financial service
provider is adequately supervised by competent
authorities in the country of incorporation.
(3) A licence granted in accordance with subsection (1) or
(2), may—
(a) contain terms and conditions that the Bank may determine in relation to the business as specified in this Act;
(b) provide for the payment of annual or other periodic fees
that may be prescribed; and
(c) require the financial service provider to allow the Bank
access to the offices, records, documents and
information of the financial service provider whether
inside or outside Zambia.
(4) A financial service provider shall not provide or offer to
provide banking or financial services in breach of the terms and
conditions of the licence.
9. A financial service provider shall display the licence issued
to the financial service provider in a prominent place at its business
premises.

Display of
licence

10. (1) The Bank shall reject an application for a licence
where—
(a) an applicant does not meet the requirements of this Act;
(b) a licence previously held by an applicant has been
cancelled by the Bank;
(c) an applicant submits false information in relation to the
application; or
(d) the name that a financial service provider is proposing to
be registered is—
(i) identical with that of another financial service
provider; or
(ii) resembles the name of another financial service
provider and is likely to deceive the public.

Rejection of
application
for licence

202

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) Where the Bank rejects an application for a licence, the
Bank shall inform the applicant of its decision, in writing, within
seven days of making the decision and shall give reasons for the
rejection.
Validity of
licence

11. A licence shall remain valid unless surrendered by the
financial service provider or cancelled by the Bank.

Authorised
activities of
banks

12. (1) A banking licence may, subject to the conditions of
the licence, authorise a bank to engage in the following activities in
addition to banking business:
(a) grant loans and extend credit, whether unsecured or on
the security of property of any kind;
(b) deal as a principal or an agent in the currency of Zambia
and, subject to the rules and regulatory statements, made
in accordance with this Act, in the currency of any other
country, foreign exchange transactions, gold, silver,
platinum, bullion or coins;
(c) provide money transfer or transmission services from a
customer’s account;
(d) issue and administer payment, credit or debit cards and,
in cooperation with other prescribed service providers,
the operation of payment, credit card and debit card
systems;
(e) act as a trustee, executor or administrator of an estate or
in any fiduciary capacity for any person;
(f) act as a financial agent for any person;
(g) provide safekeeping and custodial services for financial
assets and securities;
(h) provide merchant banking services, including the
arrangement and underwriting of shares, trade financing,
corporate financing and provision of financial advice;
(i) deal as a principal or agent for its customers in financial
derivatives; and
(j) provide branchless banking services.
(2) The Bank may prescribe other authorised activities that
may be undertaken by financial service providers which are not
inconsistent with this Act.

Transfer,
pledge,
assignment,
encumberance
of licence

13. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a licence may, with the prior
written approval of the Bank, be transferred, pledged, assigned or
encumbered in the event of a corporate restructuring transaction.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

203

(2) An application for a transfer, pledge, assignment or
encumberance of a licence, as specified in subsection (1), shall be
made to the Bank in the prescribed manner and form.
(3) The Bank may, within thirty days of receipt of an application
made in accordance with subsection (2)—
(a) approve the application on such terms and conditions as
the Bank may determine; or
(b) reject the application and give reasons for the rejection.
14. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Bank may, on the
application of a licensee or by its own motion, vary the terms and
conditions of a licence.

Variation of
licence

(2) The Bank shall, before varying the terms and conditions of
a licence, in accordance with subsection (1), give notice, in writing,
to the licensee of the Bank’s intention to make variations in the
manner specified in the notice.
(3) The licensee may, within thirty days of receipt of the written
notice, specified in subsection (2), make written representation to
the Bank on the proposed variation.
(4) The Bank shall, in deciding whether to vary a licence, have
regard to section 7.
(5) The Bank shall, on varying a licence in accordance with
this section, notify the licensee of the variation, in writing, and the
notice shall state the effective date of the variation.
(6) Compensation shall not be payable by the Bank to a financial
service provider for a variation to a licence made in accordance
with this section.
15. (1) The Bank may, on application by a licensee, and on
payment of a prescribed fee, amend a licence where—
(a) a person has succeeded title to the interest in the licence,
by substituting the name of the successor in title; or
(b) the name of a financial service provider has changed, by
substituting the name so changed.

Amendment
of licence

(2) The Bank shall, before amending a licence as specified in
subsection (1), notify the public by publishing a notice in the Gazette
and in a daily newspaper of general circulation or other media in
Zambia.
16. (1) A licensee that intends to surrender a licence shall
notify the Bank, in writing, in the prescribed manner and form of its
intention to do so.

Surrender of
licence

204

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) A licensee shall agree with the Bank on the terms and
conditions with respect to a surrender of a licence, with particular
reference to any benefit obtained or liability incurred due to the
licence or the requirements of any other relevant law.

Act No. of
2017
Act No. of
2017

Suspension
or
cancellation
of licence

(3) Where a licence is surrendered, in accordance with
subsection (1), and the Bank is satisfied that all liabilities are or will
be satisfied and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2017, or
the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, where applicable, have or
shall be complied with, the Bank shall cancel the licence.
(4) Where the Bank cancels a license surrendered in
accordance with this section, section 17 (7), (8) and (9), shall apply,
with the necessary modifications.
17. (1) Subject to this Act, the Bank may suspend or cancel a
licence if the financial service provider—
(a) obtained the licence by fraud or submitted false information
or statements;
(b) contravenes this Act or any other relevant written law;
(c) breaches any term or condition of the licence;
(d) effects a corporate restructuring transaction without the
prior written approval of the Bank;
(e) fails to comply with a decision, rule or regulatory statement
made by the Bank in accordance with this Act;
(f) fails to commence the business to which the licence relates
within a period of twelve months from the date of grant
of the licence;
(g) enters into receivership or liquidation or takes any action
for voluntary winding- up or dissolution;
(h) enters into any scheme or arrangement, other than a
corporate restructuring transaction;
(i) ceases to conduct the business authorised by the licence;
(j) is the subject of an order made by the Court or tribunal for
its compulsory winding-up or dissolution;
(k) ceases to fulfil the requirements specified in or by this
Act; or
(l) engages in unsafe and unsound practices.
(2) The Bank shall, before suspending or cancelling a licence,
in accordance with subsection (1), give written notice, in the
prescribed manner and form, to the financial service provider, of
its intention to suspend or cancel the licence and shall—

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(a) give reasons for the intended suspension or cancellation;
and
(b) require the licensee to show cause, within a period of
thirty days, why the licence should not be suspended or
cancelled.
(3) Where a financial service provider takes remedial measures
to the satisfaction of the Bank, within the period referred to in
subsection (2), the Bank shall not suspend or cancel the licence.
(4) The Bank shall, in making its final determination on the
suspension or cancellation of a licence, consider the submissions
made by the financial service provider, in accordance with
subsection (2), and shall consider any remedial measures taken in
accordance with subsection (3).
(5) The Bank may suspend or cancel a licence if the financial
service provider, after being notified in accordance with subsection
(2), fails to show cause why the licence should not be suspended
or cancelled or does not take any remedial measures to the
satisfaction of the Bank within the specified period.
(6) Where a licence has been suspended, in accordance with
this section, a financial service provider shall, for the period of the
suspension of the licence, cease to be entitled to the rights and
benefits conferred in accordance with the licence and this Act.
(7) Where a licence is cancelled, a financial service provider
shall—
(a) cease to be entitled to the rights and benefits, conferred
in accordance with the licence and this Act, with effect
from the date of the cancellation;
(b) surrender to the Bank, each copy of the licence in the
possession of the financial service provider; and
(c) take down any licence on display in every place of business
of the financial service provider.
(8) The Bank shall, where it suspends or cancels a licence, in
accordance with this section—
(a) publish a notice of the suspension or cancellation, in the
prescribed manner and form, in the Gazette and in a
daily newspaper or other media of general circulation in
Zambia; and
(b) take any additional steps necessary to inform the public
of the suspension or cancellation of the licence.

205

206

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(9) A financial service provider whose licence is cancelled
shall not, from the date it receives a notice of the cancellation from
the Bank—

Loss or
damage of
licence

(a) enter into a new contract relating to the banking business,
financial business or provision of financial services; or
(b) renew or vary a contract relating to thebanking business,
financial business or provision of financial services.
18. (1) A financial service provider that has lost a licence
shall inform the Bank, within seven days of the loss, and apply to
the Bank for a duplicate licence, in the prescribed manner and
form, and pay the prescribed fee.
(2) A financial service provider whose licence is defaced or
damaged shall apply to the Bank for a duplicate licence, in the
prescribed manner and form, and pay the prescribed fee.
(3) The Bank shall, where an application made in accordance
with subsection (1) or (2) meets the requirements of this Act, issue
a duplicate licence on payment by the applicant of the prescribed
fee.

Opening
branches,
subsidiaries
and other
establishments

19. (1) A financial service provider shall not open a branch,
subsidiary or other establishment without the prior written approval
of the Bank.
(2) A financial service provider that intends to open a branch,
subsidiary or other establishment shall apply to the Bank for approval
in the prescribed manner and form and pay the prescribed fee.
(3) A bank or financial institution shall notify the Bank of its
intention to close a branch, within sixty days before the closure.
(4) A financial business shall notify the Bank of its intention to
close a branch, within thirty days before the closure.

Representative
office

20. The Bank shall prescribe the licensing and regulatory
requirements for a representative office.

Register of
financial
service
providers

21. (1) The Bank shall establish and maintain a Register of
financial service providers in which shall be entered the—
(a) names, addresses and other particulars of the licensees;
and
(b) names and particulars of persons whose licences are
rejected or cancelled.
(2) The Register shall be open for public inspection at normal
banking hours as prescribed.

Banking and Financial Services
22.

[No. 7 of 2017

The Registrar shall publish, annually, in the Gazette—

(a) the licences issued to, and the names of, the financial
service providers; and
(b) a list of licences suspended or cancelled in accordance
with this Act.
23. (1) The Bank shall, in writing, and subject to such terms
and conditions as it may determine, appoint a suitably qualified
officer of the Bank as Registrar.

207

Publication
of financial
service
providers

Appointment
of Registrar
and Deputy
Registrars

(2) The Bank may designate officers of the Bank as Deputy
Registrars who shall be subject to the control and direction of the
Registrar and shall exercise the powers and perform the functions
directed or delegated by the Registrar.
(3) The Registrar and Deputy Registrars, specified in
subsections (1) and (2), shall each hold office for a period of five
years and shall be eligible for reappointment for a further period of
five years.
24. The Bank may authorise a financial service provider to
provide banking and financial services without relying on physical
branches in order to promote accessibility by unserved areas to
banking and financial services.

Financial
inclusion

PART III
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OF FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS
25. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a person shall not without
prior approval of the Bank, in writing—
(a) acquire any beneficial interest in the voting shares of a
financial service provider; or
(b) enter into any voting arrangement or other agreement
that would enable that person or another person to control
more than twenty-five percent of the total votes that could
be cast at a meeting of the financial service provider.
(2) Subject to section 27 (3), where a person intends to—
(a) acquire beneficial interest in the voting shares of a financial
service provider; or
(b) enter into a voting arrangement trust or other agreement;
that would enable that person to control more than twenty-five
percent of the total votes that may be cast on a resolution at a
meeting of the financial service provider, the financial service
provider shall obtain the prior written approval of the Bank.

Limit on
voting
control

208

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(3) Where a financial service provider referred to in subsection
(1) is publicly traded, the financial service provider shall notify the
Bank as soon as it becomes aware that a person has become a
significant shareholder in the financial service provider.
(4) The Bank shall, within sixty days of receipt of a request
for approval as specified in subsection (2), grant or reject the request.
(5) Where the Bank rejects a request for approval, made in
accordance with subsection (2), the Bank shall inform the requester,
in writing, of the reasons for the rejection within fourteen days of
such rejection.
(6) Subsection (1) does not apply to a company which has
more than fifty-one percent of its shares publicly traded on a
securities exchange, whether within Zambia or outside Zambia,
acceptable to the Bank.
(7) Despite subsection (1), the Bank may prescribe a different
limit of voting control for financial businesses.
(8) The Bank may suspend the exercise of voting rights that
are in excess of the limit of voting control specified in subsection
(1) or prescribed in accordance with subsection (7).
(9) A beneficial owner shall, in person or by proxy, exercise
only the voting rights on a voting share that is registered, in the
name of the beneficial owner, on the share register of a financial
service provider.
(10) A person that contravenes this section commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding four hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
four years, or to both.
Divestment
of control

26. (1) Where a financial service provider contravenes section
25, the Bank shall, on receiving notification, from any person, of
the contravention, direct the financial service provider, in the
prescribed manner and form, to dispose of the beneficial interest in
the voting shares or terminate or modify the voting trust or other
arrangement to reduce the person’s control to the extent permissible
by or in accordance with this Act.
(2) A financial service provider directed to dispose of a
beneficial interest in voting shares, or terminate or modify the voting
trust or other arrangement, shall do so within thirty days of receiving
the direction from the Bank.
(3) The Bank may, for purposes of ensuring compliance with
subsection (1), direct a financial service provider to submit to the
Bank a plan of action with regard to the reduction of control and
the Bank may give directions, in writing, for the implementation of
the plan.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

27. (1) A beneficial owner shall not own shares in the capital
of, or acquire or maintain control in, more than one financial service
provider, without the prior written approval of the Bank.

209

Ownership

(2) A nominee may hold shares in a financial service provider
only if the beneficial owner is identifiable and complies with this
Act.
(3) A beneficial owner shall not transfer to another person
any shares or other form of ownership in a financial service provider that constitutes a significant shareholding, without the prior
written approval of the Bank.
(4) This section does not prevent a person from acquiring all
the voting shares in the capital of a financial service provider for
the purpose of implementing a corporate restructuring transaction
in accordance with this Act, except that the person shall comply
with section 25 at the completion of the corporate restructuring
transaction.
(5) A request for the written approval of the Bank, made for
purposes of this section, shall be made in the prescribed manner
and form.
(6) A beneficial owner of the shares of a financial service
provider shall not charge, use as collateral or encumber those shares.
(7) A person that contravenes this section commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding four hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
four years, or to both.
28. A trust or person that controls another person’s property
or money under an arrangement or agreement, shall not own shares
in a financial service provider, unless the beneficial owner and
persons that control the trust, arrangement or agreement are
identifiable and comply with this Act and any other relevant written
law.

Prohibition
of
ownership
of shares by
trusts

29. (1) Subject to section 30, a financial service provider may
effect a corporate restructuring transaction with another company,
that is not a financial service provider, if the transaction is in
furtherance of the business of the financial service provider.

Corporate
restructuring
transactions

(2) A bank or financial institution may effect a corporate
restructuring transaction with a financial business if the restructured
company shall be a bank or financial institution.

210

No. 7 of 2017]

Requirements for
corporate
restructuring
transaction

Banking and Financial Services

30. (1) Despite any other written law, a financial service
provider shall not effect a corporate restructuring transaction without
the prior written approval of the Bank.
(2) A financial service provider shall apply, in the prescribed
manner and form, to the Bank for approval to effect a corporate
restructuring transaction, in accordance with section 29,
specifying—
(a) the name of each financial service provider or company
involved in the proposed corporate restructuring
transaction;
(b) a statement of the nature of the transaction proposed to
be entered into;
(c) the material documents intended to evidence or implement
the corporate restructuring transaction; and
(d) such other information as the Bank may require.
(3) The Bank shall, in considering an application for approval
of a corporate restructuring transaction, have regard to the —
(a) capital adequacy of each applicant in relation to the
transaction;
(b) general financial condition, resources and history of each
applicant;
(c) character and experience of the directors and persons
concerned in the management of the company
concerned;
(d) prospects of profitability of the company’s operation, if
the transaction is approved;
(e) probable effect of the transaction on competition in the
financial sector;
(f) requirements of the Competition andConsumer Protection
Act, 2010; and
(g) transparency of the legal, financial, operational, managerial,
governance and ownership structure of the proposed
restructured financial service provider.
(4) The Bank shall, where it grants approval for a corporate
restructuring transaction, specify a date on which the corporate
restructuring transaction shall take effect.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(5) The Bank shall, where it rejects an application for approval
for a corporate restructuring transaction, inform the applicant within
seven days of the decision and give reasons for the rejection.
31. (1) In this section—
“ new entity ” means a financial service provider formed by a
corporate restructuring transaction; and
“ old entity ” means the financial service provider existing
prior to the corporate restructuring transaction.
(2) Where a corporate restructuring transaction takes effect
in accordance with this Act—
(a) the assets and liabilities of the old entity or, in the case of
a transfer of assets and liabilities, the assets and liabilities
agreed to be transferred, shall vest in the new entity;
(b) the new entity shall submit a written statement to the
Bank, confirming that the assets and liabilities of the old
entity have been transferred in accordance with the
approved restructuring proposal;
(c) the new entity shall have the same rights and be subject
to the same obligations as were, immediately before the
transaction took effect, binding on the old entity or, in
the case of a transfer of assets and liabilities, the same
rights and obligations as were applicable to the old entity
with respect to the assets and liabilities so transferred;
(d) the agreements, appointments, transactions and documents
relating to transactions of the old entity, that were valid
immediately before the corporate restructuring
transaction took effect, shall continue to be valid and
shall be deemed to have been entered into with the new
entity; and
(e) a mortgage, bond, pledge, guarantee or other instrument
relating to the corporate restructuring transaction given
to secure past, present and future advances, facilities
or services by the old entity, shall be deemed to be a
mortgage, bond, pledge, guarantee or instrument given
to, or in favour of, the new entity.

211

Effect of
corporate
restructuring
transaction

212

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(3) The Registrar of Companies and a Registrar of Lands and
Deeds shall make endorsements and alterations in the respective
registers, so as to record the transfer of the property and any rights
or liabilities in the property arising from a corporate restructuring
transaction where the Registrar of Companies and the Registrar
of Lands and Deeds are satisfied that —
(a) the Bank has approved the corporate restructuring
transaction; and
(b) the transaction has been duly effected through a deed,
instrument, mortgage or other document.
(4) This section does not affect the rights of any creditor, except
to the extent specified in this section and the documents relating to
the corporate restructuring transaction.
PART IV
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Responsibilities of
Directors
Act No. of
2017

32. (1) A board shall be responsible for the duties and functions
specified in the Companies Act, 2017, and this Act.
(2) A board shall perform the following functions:
(a) formulation of policies for the financial service provider;
(b) ensuring corporate governance and business performance
of the financialservice provider;
(c) directing the affairs and business operations of the financial
service provider;
(d) ensuring that the business of the financial service provider
is carried on in compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations and is conducive to safe and sound practices;
(e) constituting committees of the board as prescribed;
(f) reporting to the shareholders, at an annual general meeting,
on the internal controls and systems and information
management systems of the financial service provider;
(g) reporting to the Bank on any material changes in the
activities, structure and condition of the financial service
provider; and
(h) reporting to the Bank on matters that may affect the
suitability of shareholders, directors and senior managers.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

33. (1) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Companies Act,
2017, or the articles of association, the Bank may—
(a) direct a board to meet within three days at such place in
Zambia as the directive shall specify;
(b) request a board to consider and decide on such items
relating to the financial service provider as the Bank
may direct; and
(c) appoint an observer to a meeting of a board concerned in
accordance with this section.
(2) Where a meeting is convened, in accordance with subsection (1) (a)—

213

Board
meetings
Act No. of
2017

(a) the quorum for the meeting shall be three directors or one
third of the total number of directors, whichever is the
greater;
(b) decisions shall be taken by a simple majority of the directors
present; and
(c) any decision taken in accordance with paragraph (b) shall
be binding on the financial service provider.
(3) The Bank shall, where a board fails to convene a meeting
as directed by the Bank in accordance with subsection (1), take
appropriate action to safeguard the integrity of the financial system,
the interests of the financial service provider and its customers.
34. (1) A person shall not be elected or appointed as a director,
chief executive officer or chief financial officer of a financial service
provider without the prior written approval of the Bank.
(2) Despite anything to the contrary in the Companies Act,
2017, or any other written law, a person is not qualified for election
or appointment as a director or senior officer if that person—
(a) is not a fit and proper person to hold the relevant office in
accordance with this Act;
(b) is below the age of twentyone years;
(c) has been adjudged bankrupt by a competent court or has
made an arrangement or composition with that person’s
creditors, in Zambia or elsewhere;
(d) has been convicted of an offence involving fraud or
dishonesty;
(e) has a mental disability that makes the person incapable of
performing the functions of the office;

Qualifications
of directors,
chief executive
officers, chief
financial
officers
Act No. of
2017

214

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(f) has been suspended or removed from office in accordance
with this Act;
(g) has been a director, member, chief executive officer, chief
financial officer, manager or senior officer of a company
that has—
(i) been adjudged insolvent;
(ii) entered into a composition with creditors; or
(iii) gone into liquidation or has entered into any other
arrangement with creditors in Zambia or
elsewhere;
(h) has been removed by a competent court, in Zambia or
elsewhere, from an office of trust on account of
misconduct or breach of that trust; or
(i) is an expatriate who does not meet such additional
requirements as the Bank may prescribe by rules issued
in accordance with this Act.
(3) A person shall not be a director of more than one financial
service provider without the prior written approval of the Bank.
(4) A person who is a director or senior officer in a financial
service provider, whose licence is cancelled in accordance with
this Act, shall not, without the prior written approval of the Bank,
be elected or appointed as a director or senior officer of another
financial service provider.
(5) A person that contravenes this section commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding four hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
four years, or to both.
Nonexecutive
directors to
be in
majority

35. (1) A board of a bank or financial institution may be
constituted of executive and non-executive directors, except that
the non-executive directors shall be in the majority.

Reporting
obligations
of Board
and directors

36. (1) The Board and each director individually shall
immediately report in writing to the Bank if they have reason to
believe that the financial service provider—

(2) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Bank, by
statutory instrument, provide for the application of subsection (1)
to a financial business.

(a) may not be able to conduct its business as a going
concern;
(b) appears to be or is likely in the near future to be unable
to meet all or any of its obligations as they fall due; and
(c) does not or may not be able to meet its capital
requirements as prescribed in this Act.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

215

(2) Where the Board or a director fails, omits or neglects to
report to the Bank any matter required to be reported under
subsection (1), the Bank may suspend or remove the Board or
director.
(3) Subject to section 165, a person who contravenes
subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable upon conviction, to
a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both.
37. (1) A director, chief executive officer, chief financial
officer or manager concerned in the management of a financial
service provider, in exercising the powers and discharging the duties
of office, shall ensure compliance with this Act, regulations and
regulatory statements of the Bank.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years, or to both.
38. (1) A director shall declare, annually, in writing, to the
board the names and addresses of the director’s associates and
the material interests of the director.
(2)

A director or senior officer who—

(a) is a party to, or has a direct or indirect interest in, a contract
or proposed contract with the financial service provider
or in the granting of an advance by the financial service
provider; or
(b) has a material relationship with a party or prospective
party to a contract or a proposed contract with the
financial service provider;
shall disclose, in writing, to the financial service provider, the nature
and extent of the relationship.
(3) A disclosure of interest, to be made in accordance with
this section, shall be made at a meeting of the board at which the
question of entering into the contract or granting the advance is
first considered, or if the director or senior officer is not, at the date
of that meeting, interested in the proposed contract or advance, at
a board meeting held immediately after the director or senior officer
becomes interested.

Conduct of
directors,
chief
executive
officers,
chief
financial
officers and
managers

Disclosure
of interest

216

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(4) A director or senior officer with an interest or material
relationship with a party to a contract, shall not participate in a
meeting of the board at which the contract concerned is discussed
and the director shall refrain from voting on any matter related to
the contract, except that a departure of a director from the meeting,
shall not disqualify the director for purposes of constituting a quorum.
(5) A director or senior officer shall not be required to make a
declaration or give a notice in person, at a meeting of the board, if
the director or senior officer delivers the notice and disclosure of
interest to each director, at least seven days before the meeting.
(6) A director or senior officer who fails to comply with this
section commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine
not exceeding seven thousand penalty units for each day that the
offence continues.
(7) Where a director or senior officer fails to disclose an interest
or material relationship as specified in this section, the Court may,
on the application of a financial service provider, shareholder or
the Bank—
(a) set aside the contract on such terms as it may determine;
and
(b) suspend the director or senior officer from office.
(8) For purposes of this section—

False
statement
and
obstruction
of examinations

Act No. of
2017

(a) persons have a material relationship if they are associated
persons or a transaction relates to or is connected with
the wealth, business or family interests of the person; or
(b) a person has a material interest in an entity where the
person owns, directly or indirectly, more than ten percent
of any class of voting shares or is a director, proprietor
or partner in the entity.
39. (1) A director, senior officer, or other employee, agent,
accountant or adviser of a financial service provider shall not—
(a) negligently or with intent to deceive, make a false or
misleading statement or entry or omit to make a statement
or entry in any book, account, report or statement of the
financial service provider; or
(b) obstruct or attempt to obstruct—
(i) the proper performance by an auditor of the
auditor’s duties in accordance with this Act, the
Companies Act, 2017, or any other relevant law;
or
(ii) a lawful inspection of the financial service provider by a duly authorised inspector appointed
by the Bank.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

217

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year, or to both.
40. (1) The Bank may, by order in writing, suspend from office
for a period not exceeding six months, a director or senior officer
who fails to take reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
financial service provider with the requirements of the Act,
regulations, rules or regulatory statements made in accordance with
this Act or any other relevant written law.

Suspension
or dismissal
of directors
and senior
officers by
Bank and
removal of
shareholders

(2) The Bank may, at any time before the expiry of the period
referred to in subsection (1), apply to the Court for an order extending
the suspension on good cause shown or an order dismissing a
director or senior officer and the Court may, by order—
(a) suspend from office the director or senior officer concerned
for such period as it considers appropriate in the
circumstances; or
(b) dismiss the director or senior officer from office.
(3) A director or senior officer who performs the functions of
office during the period of suspension, or after being dismissed
from office, commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a
fine not exceeding three hundred thousand penalty units or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or to both.
(4) A significant shareholder shall cease to be a shareholder in
a financial service provider if the Bank determines, on evidential
grounds, that the significant shareholder is not a fit and proper
person to continue holding shares in financial service provider.
(5) The Bank shall, upon application to the Court, dispose of
any shareholding interest, of any person that ceases to be a
shareholder in accordance with subsection (4), in a manner and to
persons ordered by the Court, subject to the payment of compensation, where applicable.
41. (1) The Bank may prescribe fit and proper requirements
for a shareholder, director or senior officer, which may include
criteria relating to—
(a) probity, personal integrity and reputation;
(b) competency and capability; and
(c) financial integrity.

Fit and
proper
requirements

218

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) The Bank may remove a shareholder, director or senior
officer from office, if it considers that the person, on evidential
grounds, has breached the requirements prescribed in subsection
(1).
Corporate
governance

42. (1) The Bank shall, by rules issued in accordance with
this Act, prescribe the contents of a corporate governance charter
to be adopted by a financial service provider.
(2) A board shall develop its own corporate governance charter based on the contents prescribed in accordance with subsection (1).

Act No. of
2017

Principal
administrative office

(3) The Bank shall, by rules issued in accordance with this
Act, prescribe—
(a) the number of directors to be appointed for a board of a
bank or financial institution;
(b) the number and type of committees of a board to be
constituted and their functions;
(c) mandatory conditions under which a senior officer or other
employee concerned with the management or financial
affairs of a financial service provider shall be removed
from office by a board; and
(d) the reporting requirements relating to compliance of this
Act, the Companies Act, 2017, and rules and regulations issued in accordance with this Act.
PART V
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
43. (1) A financial service provider shall establish and maintain
a principal administrative office in Zambia and shall inform the
Bank, in the prescribed manner and form, of the location of the
principal administrative office.
(2) A financial service provider shall not change the location
of its principal administrative office without the prior written approval
of the Bank.
(3) A financial service provider that intends to change the
location of its principal administrative office shall, in the prescribed
manner and form, and at least sixty days before the proposed
change, apply to the Bank for the approval of the proposed change.
(4) The Bank shall, when considering an application made in
accordance with subsection (3), take into consideration the suitability
of the proposed location.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

219

(5) Where the Bank rejects an application made in accordance
with subsection (3), the Bank shall inform the financial service
provider, in writing, within seven days of making the decision and
give reasons for the rejection.
44. (1) A financial service provider shall use its name—
(a) on letterheads, correspondence, official documents,
advertisements or other communication published or
issued by the financial service provider; and
(b) in written contracts to which a financial service provider
is a party.
(2) A financial service provider shall not, without the prior
written approval of the Bank, alter its name or use or refer to itself
for any business purpose by any other name or an abbreviation of
the name.

Use and
alteration of
name

(3) A financial service provider may, with the written approval
of the Bank, use its name with the name of a business or undertaking
with which it has had a corporate restructuring transaction or, in
the case of a change of name, by the subsequent name registered.
45. (1) A financial service provider shall remain open for
business with the public during the hours prescribed by the Bank or
such other hours as the Bank may authorise.

Business
hours

(2) The Bank may, on application by a financial service provider,
authorise the financial service provider to be closed on any business
day subject to such terms and conditions as the Bank may determine.
46. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Bank,
by statutory instrument, prescribe a bank holiday.

Bank
holiday

(2) Where an obligation to be discharged by a bank or financial
institution falls on a bank holiday, it shall be discharged on the next
business day following the bank holiday.
(3) In this section, “bank holiday” means a day on which a
bank or financial institution, except a bank’s or financial institution’s
branch at an airport or border post, is not open for business with
the public, whether or not that day is a public holiday.
47. (1) A financial service provider shall prepare and maintain
records which shall contain—
(a) the articles of association and amendments to the articles
of association;
(b) a register of shareholders and the number of shares
registered in the name of each shareholder;

Records to
be registered
and
maintained

220

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(c) the minutes of meetings and resolutions of the board;
(d) the minutes of meetings and resolutions of the shareholders;
(e) the business correspondence, with supporting accounting
records, showing the state of its business affairs and
transactions and the financial position of the financial
service provider;
(f) for each customer of the financial service provider, records
showing, particulars of transactions with, or for the
account of, the customer and the balance owing to or
by the customer on a daily basis; and
(g) such other records required to be prepared and maintained
in accordance with this Act or as may be prescribed by
the Bank.
(2) The records, referred to in subsection (1) a), (b), (c), (d)
and (e) shall be kept and maintained at the principal administrative
office of the financial service provider.
(3) The records, referred to in subsection (1), shall be open
for inspection at reasonable times by—
(a) the directors; and
(b) except for records specified in subsection (1) (c) and (f),
the shareholders and creditors, or their personal
representatives, as provided in this Act and any other
relevant law.
48. (1) A financial service provider shall cause to be established
Credit
documentation and maintained, at the principal administrative office, credit
documentation and other information relating to the business of the
financial service provider with customers and other persons, as the
Bank may determine.
(2) In this section, “credit documentation” means the following
documents attaching or relating to a contract entered into by a
financial service provider with any other person for the provision
of a banking or financial service or in respect of a banking or
financial service performed or to be performed by the financial
service provider:
(a) the current financial statements showing indebtedness of
a borrower tothe financial service provider and where
the debt is guaranteed, the details of the guarantor;
(b) a description of the collateral over which the financial
service provider has a mortgage or charge as security
for the settlement of a credit facility;

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

221

(c) a statement of the terms of the credit, including the
principal amount, rate of interest, schedule of
repayments and the borrower’s objective or purpose
for borrowing; and
(d) documents evidencing the assessment and approval of
the credit facility by the financial service provider.
49. A register or record that a financial service provider is
required to establish and maintain in accordance with this Act shall
be—

Manner of
keeping
records

(a) bound in looseleaf or photographic film form;
(b) entered or recorded by any system of mechanical or
electronic data processing or any other device or process
capable of reproducing the information in intelligible
written form within a reasonable time; and
(c) if kept in any one form, be capable of conversion to any
other form.
50. (1) A financial service provider shall retain a register or
record for a period of ten years.

Retention of
records

(2) The Bank may require a financial service provider to retain
records for a longer period than specified in subsection (1).
51. (1) A financial service provider shall, with respect to a
register or record—
(a) prevent loss or unauthorised destruction;
(b) prevent falsification of entries;
(c) facilitate the detection and correction of inaccuracies;
and
(d) prevent the use or access of information by an unauthorised
person.
(2) A financial service provider may destroy a register or
record, kept in accordance with this Act, at any time after the
register or record has been converted to another form.
(3)

A person shall not—

(a) destroy, alter, mutilate or falsify any book, document, valuable security or account, which belongs to a financial
service provider or customer, or any entry in such a
book, document, or account, or be privy to any such act;
(b) make or be privy to the making of a false entry in a book,
document or account; or

Maintenance
of records

222

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(c) omit or be privy to an omission of a material particular
from a book, document or account.
(4) A person who contravenes subsection (3) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years, or to both.
PART VI
PRUDENTIAL REGULATION AND SUPERVISION
Minimum
capital
requirements

52. (1) The Bank shall prescribe the minimum paidup capital,
minimum common equity tier one, minimum primary capital and
minimum regulatory capital requirements for financial service
providers.
(2) A financial service provider shall compute its regulatory
capital in the manner prescribed by the Bank.
(3) A financial service provider shall commence operations
with the minimum paidup capital prescribed by the Bank.
(4) A financial service provider shall maintain the minimum
common equity tier one, primary capital and regulatory capital ratios
prescribed by the Bank.
(5) Despite subsection (4), the Bank may require a bank or
financial institution to maintain common equity tier one and primary
and regulatory capital ratios, in excess of the prescribed amounts,
where a bank or financial institution—
(a) has been operating for less than three years;
(b) has been or is expected to have losses resulting in capital
deficiencies;
(c) has significant exposure to risk, whether credit,
concentration of credit, interest risk, liquidity, operational
or any other serious weaknesses in the quality of its
assets or earnings;
(d) has a high or severe volume of poor quality assets;
(e) is growing rapidly, internally or through acquisitions;
(f) may be adversely affected by the activities or conditions
of its holding company, subsidiary or associates;
(g) has deficiencies in its ownership or management,
shareholding structure, composition, qualifications of its
directors or senior officers or risk management policies
and procedures; or

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

223

(h) may be adversely exposed in any other circumstance
determined or prescribed by the Bank.
(6) A financial service provider shall not issue any share in its
capital or other security other than a bonus share or a share in lieu
of dividend or other prescribed security unless it receives the fullface
value thereof in Zambian Kwacha.
53. (1) A financial service provider shall build up a capital
conservation buffer.

Capital
conservation
buffer

(2) The capital conservation buffer shall be in the form of
common equity tier one as prescribed by the Bank.
(3) The Bank may prescribe different buffer requirements for
different categories of financial service providers.
(4) A financial service provider shall not declare, credit or pay
any dividends, or make other discretionary payments or make any
transfer from retained earnings, if doing so would result in failure
to provide for, or maintain, the required capital conservation buffer.
54. (1) Subject to subsection (3), the Bank may require banks
and financial institutions to maintain a counter-cyclical capital buffer
in their riskweighted assets and forms of common equity capital
tier one.

Countercyclical
capital
buffer

(2) Where the Bank adjusts the counter-cyclical capital buffer,
the Bank shall announce the decision at least thirty days in advance
of the effective date, except that a decision to decrease the level
of the countercyclical capital buffer shall take effect immediately.
(3) A counter-cyclical capital buffer shall not be required where
the Bank determines that the capital released shall help to absorb
losses in a bank or financial institution that pose a risk to financial
stability.
55. (1) A bank or financial institution that intends to declare a
dividend shall apply to the Bank, for approval of the amount proposed
to be declared.
(2) The Bank may, having regard to the impact on the capital
adequacy, capital conservation buffer and the risk profile of the
applicant—
(a) approve the amount of dividend intended to be declared;
(b) approve a reduced amount of dividend; or
(c) prohibit the payment of any dividend.

Restriction
on payment
of dividends

224

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

Leverage
ratio

56. The Bank may require banks and financial institutions to
maintain common equity tier one, to total on and off balance sheet
assets, at a ratio prescribed by the Bank.

Maintenance of
liquidity

57. (1) A bank or financial institution shall maintain adequate
and appropriate forms of liquidity as prescribed by the Bank.
(2)

A bank or financial institution shall not—
(a) hold liquid assets, within the bank or financial institution,
of less than the percentage level or proportion prescribed
by the Bank; or
(b) grant or permit, for the period during which liquid assets
are less than the percentage level or proportion prescribed by the Bank, an increase in its outstanding loans,
overdrafts or investments.

(3) A bank or financial institution shall, within seven days from
the date of a request on the liquidity position of the bank or financial institution by the Bank, provide the information to the Bank.
(4) The Bank may impose, on a bank or financial institution
that fails to comply with this section, an administrative penalty on
the amount of deficiency, at a rate of two or more percentage
points above the annual interest rate prevailing in the most recent
ninetyone day treasury bill auction.
Constraints
on contracts
with
associated
person

58. (1) A financial service provider may enter into a contract
with an associated person if the—
(a) board approves the contract in advance, and the contract
is on terms that are not less favourable to the financial
service provider than the terms of similar contracts entered into by the financial service provider with persons
who are not associated;
(b) contract is for a nominal sum or of a class or type exempted by the Bank from the operation of this section;
or
(c) terms of the contract are in conformity with this Act.

Examination
of financial
service
providers

59. (1) The Bank may cause an examination to be made of a
financial service provider in order to determine whether the financial
service provider is—
(a) in a sound financial condition; and
(b) complying with this Act, and any other relevant written
law.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(2) Despite any other written law, the Bank may access the
business of a financial service provider and examine—
(a) oral and documented information including information in
computers, books, minutes, accounts and vouchers;
(b) cash and securities; and
(c) any other thing in the possession, custody or under the
control of a financial service provider or its affiliate.
(3) The Bank shall, after the completion of an examination
undertaken in accordance with this section, submit a report on the
examination to the chairperson of the board concerned and shall
require the—
(a) chairperson of the board to submit the report to a meeting
of the board; and
(b) financial service provider to provide satisfactory explanations, in writing, on actions to be taken on the issues
raised in the report.
(4) A report submitted by the Bank, in accordance with subsection (3), shall be confidential and a director, senior officer or
other employee of a financial service provider and any person who,
by reason of the person’s capacity or office, has access to the
report shall not, without the prior written approval of the Bank,
while holding that office, or after the termination of employment,
communicate the report or any part of the report to any person
other than a director, a senior officer or other employee of that
financial service provider.
(5) The Bank may, where it determines that an examination
undertaken in accordance with this section shows that the business of a financial service provider is conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the financial service provider or its shareholders—
(a) require the financial service provider to take such remedial
measures as the Bank may direct; or
(b) appoint a person who is competent to advise the financial
service provider on the necessary remedial measures
to be taken in accordance with paragraph (a).
(6) A person who, in good faith, provides information or
facilitates an examination of a financial service provider, in
compliance with this section, shall be indemnified against any claim
or sanction as a consequence of such action.

225

226

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(7) A person who contravenes subsection (3), (4) or (5) commits
an offence is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand penalty units, or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year, or to both.
4.35 mm
Submission
of returns

60. (1) A bank or financial institution shall deliver to the Bank,
in the form and within the period prescribed by the Bank—
(a) a statement showing assets and liabilities as at the close
of the last business day of that month;
(b) the amount of its regulatory capital and reserve funds and
the ratio that the amount of its liabilities to the public
bears to the amount of its regulatory capital and reserve
funds;
(c) a statement showing the loans that are performing;
(d) a statement showing the loans that are non-performing,
loans that have been restructured including the terms of
restructuring as the case may be; and
(e) such other statements, further details or evidence concerning its operations, financial condition and resources
as may be prescribed by the Bank.
(2)
The Bank may require a financial business to provide periodic reports showing information on its operations, financial condition and resources as the Bank may prescribe.

Consolidated
supervision

61. (1) The Bank shall, where it considers it necessary for
the safety and soundness of the financial service provider, safety
of depositors, or to determine whether this Act is being complied
with, require, in writing, an affiliate, associate, holding or subsidiary
company, or a person that controls the financial service provider, to
provide the Bank or its appointed agent such information or
documents as may be necessary, including the financial statements
and other financial records of that affiliate, associate, holding or
subsidiary company or person in control, within the period specified
in the notice.
(2) The Bank may appoint a competent person to undertake
an examination of the operations and affairs of an affiliate, associate, holding or subsidiary company of a financial service provider
or any person that controls a financial service provider, in order to
determine whether the operations and affairs of the affiliate, associate, holding or subsidiary company or the person in control are
detrimental to the safety and soundness of the financial service
provider.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

227

8.42 mm

(3) A person who fails, refuses, omits or neglects to provide
information requested in subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence
is liable, upon conviction, for each day during which the
contravention continues, to a fine not exceeding two hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years, or to both.
(4) A significant shareholder or director who fails, refuses,
omits or neglects to provide information requested for in accordance
with subsection (1) or (2) or is a party to the failure, refusal, omission
or neglect, ceases to be a fit and proper person and shall not be or
remain a significant shareholder or director in the financial service
provider.
62. (1) The Bank may exercise its authority over an affiliate of
a financial service provider where the Bank determines that it is
necessary to implement supervision on a consolidated basis or to
effectively supervise the financial service provider and the risks to
which it is subjected.

Affiliates
and crossborder
supervision

(2) The Bank may, in order to ensure effective supervision of a
financial service provider that operates both within and outside
Zambia, enter into arrangements for sharing supervisory information
on a reciprocal basis with the competent supervisory authorities
outside Zambia.
63. (1) The Bank may prescribe conduct or actions which
constitute unsafe or unsound practices.
(2) Where the Bank determines that a financial service provider
is committing or pursuing an act or course of conduct that is unsafe
or unsound, the Bank may enter into a written agreement, within
the time, form and content as directed by the Bank, with the financial
service provider or its board to establish a programme of action to
counteract the unsafe or unsound practice and to establish or
maintain safe and sound practices in the conduct of the business of
the financial service provider.
(3) Where the Bank is unable to agree with a financial service
provider, as provided in subsection (2), or where the Bank considers
that the need for prompt action makes the negotiating of an agreement
impractical, the Bank may direct the financial service provider, board
or chief executive officer to cease or refrain from doing the act,
pursuing the course of conduct or performing any act to rectify the
situation.

Unsafe and
unsound
practices

228

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(4) The Bank may, where it determines that a financial service
provider is committing or pursuing an act or course of conduct that
is unsafe or unsound—
(a) direct the financial service provider to refrain from adopting
or pursuing a particular course of action or to restrict
the scope of its business in a particular way;
(b) impose a limitation on the bank’s acceptance of deposits,
payment of interest on deposits, granting of credit,
making of investments or payment of dividends;
(c) prohibit the bank or financial institution from soliciting
deposits or paying interest on deposits made by or from
specified persons or classes of persons;
(d) prohibit the financial service provider from entering into
any other transaction or class of transactions or from
commencing or continuing an activity that it is permitted
in this Act; or
(e) require the suspension or removal from office of any
director, senior officer or other person.
(5) A direction given in accordance with this section shall be
given by written notice to the financial service provider or person
concerned and may in like manner be varied or revoked.
(6) A direction given, in accordance with this section, shall be
effective immediately and shall remain in effect in accordance with
its terms unless discontinued on appeal.
(7) A person acting in contravention of an agreement made, or
direction given, in accordance with this section, commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a penalty not exceeding five hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years, or to both.
(8) A person who carries out any unsafe or unsound practice,
contrary to the provisions of this Act or rules issued in accordance
with this Act, commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to
a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or to both.
Supervisory
actions

64. (1) The Bank shall take supervisory action against a
financial service provider where —
(a) the financial service provider fails to comply with this
Act and any rule or regulatory statement issued in
accordance with this Act or any other applicable law;

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

(b) the financial service provider refuses to permit an
examination or obstructs an examination from being
made as provided in or in accordance with this Act;
(c) an examination instituted in accordance with thisAct shows
that a financial service provider—
(i) conducts business in breach of any relevant written
law or engages in conduct that is unsafe or
unsound;
(ii) is unable, or is likely to become unable, to continue
its operations in the ordinary course of its
business;
(iii) has capital which is less than the prescribed
minimum; or
(iv) is insolvent.
(2) Without prejudice to any other course of action taken by
the Bank, the supervisory action that the Bank may take as specified
in subsection (1), includes—
(a) making directions, in writing, that the financial service
provider takes remedial action to comply with any rule
or regulatory statement;
(b) issuing a regulatory statement or measures to be taken to
improve the management, financial soundness or
business methods of a financial service provider;
(c) requiring the board or senior officers to execute an
agreement on implementation of a regulatory statement
issued in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b);
(d) performing or appointing an agent to perform a special
examination of the financial service provider to determine
the financial condition of the financial service provider
at the cost of the financial service provider; or
(e) taking possession of a financial serviceprovider.
(3) Where a financial service provider fails, refuses or neglects
to comply with a regulatory statement issued or an agreement made,
in accordance with subsection (1), the Bank may do any of the
following:
(a) issue a cease and desist order, of temporary or indefinite
duration, requiring the financial service provider and its
board to—

229

230

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(i) stop the unsafe or unsound practice;
(ii) limit its lending or borrowing;
(iii) stop any declaration or payment of dividends; or
(iv) stop any other activity as may be specified by the
Bank;
(b) remove or suspend a person from the management of the
affairs of the financial service provider;
(c) impose penalties on the offending senior officer, which
shall be paid by the senior officer;
(d) appoint a person who, in the consideration of the Bank, is
suitablyqualified and competent to advise and assist the
financial service provider, generally or for the purposes
of implementing the orders, regulatory statement or
agreement made in accordance with paragraph (a), (b)
or (c);
(e) appoint a person who is suitably qualified and competent
to manage the affairs of a financial service provider for
such period as shall be necessary to rectify the problem;
(f) require the financial service provider to reconstitute its
board within such period as shall be specified;
(g) withhold approvals on establishment of new branches;
(h) restrict or vary the financial service provider’s licence;
(i) require the financial service provider to increase its capital
to such levels as may be specified; or
(j) impose any administrative penalty as the Bank may consider
appropriate in the circumstance.
Financial
service
provider
suffering
large losses

65. The Bank shall, where a financial service provider
complying with the prescribed capital requirements incurs or is likely
to incur large losses within any financial year, take the following
actions against the financial service provider:
(a) prohibit the financial service provider from declaring and
distributing any dividends that are likely to cause the
financial service provider not to comply with the capital
requirements prescribed in this Act;
(b) undertake more frequent examinations of the financial
service provider; or
(c) require the board or senior officers to provide a written
explanation detailingthe causes of losses and the
measuresto be taken by the financial service provider to
rectify the position and avert future losses.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

66. (1) Where a financial service provider is under-capitalised,
the Bank shall, in addition to the actions specified in section 65,
take the following actions against the financial service provider:
(a) order the financial service provider to submit to the Bank,
within thirty days of the order, a capital restoration plan
to restore the financial service provider to capital
adequacy as prescribed in this Act;
(b) require the financial service provider to increase the capital
to prescribed levels, within ninety days of submission of
the capital restoration plan; and
(c) prohibit the financial service provider from awarding any
bonuses or increments in the salary, emoluments and
other benefits to directors and senior officers.
(2) The Bank may, in addition to the actions, specified in
subsection (1), appoint a person who is suitably qualified and
competent to advise and assist a financial service provider in
designing and implementing a capital restoration plan.
(3) A person, appointed in accordance with subsection (2),
shall report to the Bank the progress being made on the capital
restoration plan, during such intervals as the Bank may direct.
(4) Where the Bank takes action, in accordance with subsection
(1) or (2), and the financial service provider fails, refuses or neglects
to comply, the Bank shall—
(a) prohibit the financial service provider from opening new
branches;
(b) impose restrictions on growth of assetsor liabilities of the
financial service provider as the Bank shall determine;
(c) restrict the rate of interest on savings and time deposits
payable by the financial service provider to such rates
as the Bank shall specify;
(d) require the financial service provider to remove the senior
officers responsible for the non-compliance; or
(e) order the financial service provider to do any or such other
things as the Bank may consider necessary to rectify the
capital deficiency of the financial service provider.
(5) In this section, a financial service provider shall be
considered as under-capitalised if it does not comply fully with any
prescribed capital adequacy requirements.

231

Undercapitalised
financial
service
provider

232

No. 7 of 2017]

Significantly
undercapitalised
financial
provider

Banking and Financial Services

67. (1) Where a financial service provider is significantly
undercapitalised, the Bank shall take any of the following actions
against the financial service provider:
(a) any action specified in section 66;
(b) direct the board to rectify its significant under-capitalisation
within ninety days and restore capital adequacy within
one hundred and eighty days or within such shorter period
as the Bank may direct;
(c) restrict or vary the financial service provider’s licence;
(d) suspend the financial service provider’s licence;
(e) cancel the financial service provider’s licence; or
(f) take possession of the financial service provider.
(2) The Bank shall prescribe what constitutes significantly
under-capitalised for the purposes of this section.
(3) The Bank shall, in writing, inform the Minister of the state
of affairs of a bank or financial institution in respect of which the
Bank has taken supervisory action in accordance with this section.

Corrective
actions
against
financial
businesses

68. (1) The Bank may take any of the supervisory actions,
specified in this Act, against a financial business where it considers
it appropriate and necessary so to do.
(2) The corrective actions, specified in sections 66 and 67,
shall take precedence over any discretionary corrective actions
available to the Bank as specified in this Act or any other law.

Modification,
cancellation
and
upholding
of
regulatory
statement

69. The Bank may, on representation made by a person,
financial service provider or on its own motion, modify, cancel or
uphold a regulatory statement issued specifically for or against a
financial service provider and, on such modification or cancellation,
impose conditions that the Bank considers necessary or appropriate
in the matter.

Notice of
taking
possession

70. When taking possession of a financial service provider, the
Bank shall post in each branch of the financial service provider
concerned a notice announcing its action and specifying the date,
hour and minute at which the possession takes effect and if the
taking of possession is pursuant to an insolvency the Bank shall
transmit a copy of the notice to the Court.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

71. The Bank shall, on taking possession of a financial service
provider, be vested with full and exclusive powers of management
and control of the financial service provider and shall have the power
to—

233

Powers and
duties of
Bank on
taking
possession

(a) dissolve the board;
(b) continue or discontinue any operations;
(c) borrow money, on the security of the assets of the financial
service provider or not on such security;
(d) suspend the payment of any obligation, including interest;
(e) employ, reemploy, retain in employment, or terminate the
employment of a senior officer, other employee of the
financial service provider or professional advisor, where
the Bank considers necessary;
(f) execute an instrument in the name of the bank or financial
institution and conduct in the name of the bank or
financial institution any action or legal proceeding;
(g) terminate the interests of shareholders and refer the
determination of the value of the interest to the Court or
an arbitrator;
(h) enforce the personal liability of the directors and
shareholders of the financial service provider incurred
in the ordinary course of business and on unpaid shares;
and
(i) take any other appropriate action specified in this Act.
72. The Bank shall, on taking possession of a financial service
provider, prepare a statement of affairs of the assets and liabilities
of the financial service provider, within ninety days from the effective
date of taking possession, in order to determine whether the financial
service provider is solvent or insolvent.

Statement of
affairs of
assets and
liabilities on
taking
possession

73. Where a statement of affairs of the assets and liabilities of
a financial service provider, made in accordance with section 72
shows the financial service provider is solvent, the Bank shall—

Actions
where
financial
service
provider is
solvent

(a) restructure or reorganise the financial service provider;
(b) sell the financial service provider as a going concern;
(c) close the financial service provider;
(d) transfer all or part of the business of the financial service
provider to a bridge bank;

234

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(e) initiate a purchase and assumption transaction;
(f) dispose of some of the assets of the financial service
provider; or
(g) take an action that the Bank considers necessary to enable
the Bank carry out its functions in accordance with this
Act.
Actions
where
financial
service
provider is
insolvent

74. (1) Where a statement of affairs of the assets and liabilities,
made in accordance with section 72, shows that the financial service
provider is insolvent, the Bank shall take the following actions:
(a) place the financial service provider under compulsory
liquidation;
(b) exercise any of the powers in section 73; or
(c) with respect to a financial business, revoke the financial
business licence and recommend to the appropriate
authority to place the financial business, into liquidation.
(2) Despite the provisions of subsection (1), where a financial
service provider is systemically important, the Bank in consultation
with the Minister, may place the institution under temporary public
control.

Application
to Court for
termination
of possession

75. A financial service provider or any interested person acting
on its behalf may, within twentyone days after the date on which
the Bank takes possession of the financial service provider, institute
proceedings in Court to require the Bank to show cause why the
possession of the financial service provider should not be terminated.

Effects of
possession

76. (1) Where the Bank takes possession of a financial service
provider—
(a) despite the provisions of any other relevant law relating to
extension of time, any term, whether statutory or
contractual, on the expiration of which a claim or right
of the financial service provider would expire or be
extinguished, shall be extended by six months from the
date of such expiration;
(b) an attachment or lien, except for an attachment or lien
existing twelve months prior to the taking possession of
the financial service provider, shall be vacated;
(c) an attachment or lien shall not attach to assets or property
of the financial service provider during the period that
the possession continues, except an attachment or lien
created—

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

235

(i)

by the Bank in carrying out its role of lender of
last resort; or
(ii) in favour of a payment system, settlement
system or settlement in netting or gross
settlement arrangement;
(d) every payment or transfer of an asset or property of the
financial service provider made with intent to effect a
preference of the recipient over the other creditors of a
financial service provider or at less than the appraised
book value, shall be void, if made within a period of
twelve months before the Bank takes possession of the
financial service provider;
(e) a gratuitous transfer of any asset of the financial service
provider made within twelve months before the
possession by the Bank shall be void and all assets shall
be surrendered to the Bank; and
(f) any lending to a senior officer, other employee of the
financial service provider, director or any associated
person on preferential terms or without adequate security
made within six months prior to the possession of the
financial service provider may be rescinded and that
senior officer, other employee of the financial service
provider or associated person shall immediately refund
the moneys advanced and interest accrued, at the
prevailing rate at the time of possession, to the financial
service provider.
(2) Where a payment or transfer, referred to in subsection (1)(d),
has the effect of preferring the recipient, it shall be presumed to
have been made with that intent, except in the case of a—
(a) payment made to a creditor in the ordinary course of
business to discharge in whole or in part a debt or other
liability of the financial service provider to the creditor;
or
(b) transfer of an asset or property made in a current exchange
for valuable consideration equal to the fair market value
of the asset or property transferred.
77. (1) Where the Bank, acting in accordance with section 73
(a) commences a restructuring or reorganisation, or both, of a
financial service provider, the Bank shall, after granting a reasonable
opportunity for a hearing to all interested parties, develop and send
a copy of the restructuring or reorganisation plan to eachdepositor
and any other creditor who, under the plan,would not receive full
payment.

Restructuring
and
reorganisation

236

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) A copy of a restructuring or reorganisation plan, specified
in subsection (1), shall be accompanied by a notice stating that the
Bank shall proceed to carry out the restructuring or reorganisation,
if the plan is not rejected, in writing, within thirty days—
(a) by persons holding at least one third of the aggregate
amount of the deposits;
(b) creditors comprising at least onethird in value of the
aggregate of the claims of creditors, other than
subordinated creditors; or
(c) if within that period, no objection or appeal to the Court
has been made and the Court does not order a stay of
proceedings.
Refusal of
restructuring
or
reorganisation

78. Where depositors and other creditors reject a restructuring
or re-organisation plan developed by the Bank, in accordance with
section 77, or when in the course of a restructuring or reorganisation
it appears to the Bank that circumstances render the plan inequitable
or its execution impossible or undesirable, the Bank may—
(a) modify the plan; or
(b) order the compulsory liquidation of the financial service
provider in accordance with Part X.

Restriction
on execution
of judgment

79. (1) A writ of execution, attachment, garnishee order or other
process of a similar nature shall not be issued or made against the
assets or property of a financial service provider which is in the
possession of the Bank.
(2) Where a creditor has issued or made a writ of execution or
attachment, garnishee order or other process of a similar nature
against the movable or immovable property of a financial service
provider or has attached a debt due to the financial service provider,
the creditor is not entitled to retain the benefit of the execution or
attachment, unless the creditor has completed the execution or
attachment twelve months before the effective date of the Bank
taking possession of the financial service provider.

Recovery of
expenses

80. All necessary and reasonable expenses, costs and charges
incurred by the Bank in the application of this Part shall be defrayed
from the funds of the financial service provider.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

237

PART VII
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSACTIONS OF FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS
81. (1) A bank or financial institution shall not—
(a) mortgage, charge or grant security toany person over an
asset of a bank or financial institution other than—
in the ordinary course of its business; or
to the Bank in order to secure short term liquidity
advances made by the Bank in accordance with
the Bank of Zambia Act; or
(b) acquire an asset that is subject to a mortgage, charge or
other security interest in favour of any person, except to
satisfy a debt or liability to the bank or financial
institution.

Secured
borrowing

(i)
(ii)

Cap. 360

(2) Despite subsection (1) a bank or financial institution shall
not enter into a lending agreement that authorises the lender to place
the bank or financial institution into receivership.
82. (1) A bank or financial institution shall not, directly or
indirectly—
(a) except as the Bank may prescribe, grant a credit facility
or guarantee a debt of a person or common enterprise so
that the total value of the credit facility and guarantee,
in respect of a person or common enterprise, is more
than twentyfive percent of the regulatory capital of the
bank or financial institution;
(b) grant a credit facility against the security of its own shares
or of those of a company affiliated to it;
(c) except with the prior written approval of the Bank, and on
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the
Bank, grant or permit to be outstanding any secured or
unsecured grants, advances and guarantees which are
more than five percent of common equity tier one capital
of the bank or financial institution, to
(i) its directors, whether such advances are obtained
by the directors individually, jointly or severally;
(ii) a person that has control of the bank or financial
institution; or

Limitations
on granting
credit
facilities

238

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(iii) a body of persons in which one or more of its
directors has control or is a director, partner,
manager, agent or member; or
(d) grant or permit to be outstanding to a senior officer or
other employee of the bank or financial institution,
unsecured advances that on aggregate exceed the
respective annual remunerations of the senior officer or
other employee, except with the prior written approval
of the Bank and on such terms and conditions as the
Bank may prescribe.
(2) The total value of grants, credit facilities and guarantees,
specified in subsection (1), shall not exceed twenty-five percent of
the regulatory capital.
(3) Where the Bank, in imposing the limitations specified in
subsections (1) and (2), determines that a group of two or more
persons to whom a grant, credit facility or guarantee has been or
shall be made, is a common enterprise or is so interrelated that the
group should be considered as a unit, the Bank may, by notice,
direct that the total indebtedness of that group shall be combined
and shall be deemed to be the indebtedness of a single person.
(4) A bank or financial institution shall not be considered as
having contravened subsection (1) or (2) by virtue of a
determination, made in accordance with subsection (3), if the bank
or the financial institution disposes of the indebtedness of the group
to the extent that the indebtedness exceeds the relevant limitation
within such reasonable time as the Bank may determine.
Restriction
on trade

83. A bank or financial institution shall not, directly or
indirectly, without the prior written approval of the Bank and on
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed, engage in any
trade or business for which it is not licensed, except where it is
necessary for a period not exceeding twelve months or such longer
period as the Bank may allow, to secure any debt due to the bank or
financial institution.

Restriction
on equity
investments

84. (1) A bank or financial institution shall not, directly or
indirectly, without the prior written approval of the Bank and on
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed, acquire ownership
of an interest in a commercial, agricultural, industrial or other
business undertaking, except as an interest that is necessary for
securing or satisfying a debt or other liability payable to the bank
or the financial institution and which is disposed of within two years
or subsequently extended with the prior written approval of the
Bank.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

239

(2) A bank or financial institution shall not invest in an equity
interest in a person, property or undertaking in an amount exceeding
fifteen percent of the total of all equity interests in the person,
property or undertaking.
(3) The aggregate investment in equity interests of a person,
property or undertaking by the bank or financial institution shall
not exceed fifteen percent of its primary capital.
(4) A bank or financial institution shall not acquire an equity
interest in a person, property or undertaking where the value of the
bank or financial institution’s equity exceeds fifteen percent of its
primary capital.
(5) A bank or financial institution shall not acquire an equity
interest in a person, property or undertaking in which an insider
has a related interest that exceeds ten percent of the bank or financial
institution’s primary capital.
(6) Subsection (2) does not apply to an investment by a bank
or financial institution in the shares of its subsidiary or proposed
subsidiary where the—
(a) equity interest in the subsidiary is less than fiftyone percent
of the total equity interests in the subsidiary; or
(b) aggregate of the equity investments by the bank or financial
institution is less than fifteen percent of its primary
capital.
(7) Despite subsection (6), the Bank may approve the holding
of more than fifty-one percent equity interest in a subsidiary on
such terms and conditions as the Bank may determine.
(8) Subsection (2) does not apply to the acquisition by a bank
or financial institution of an equity interest in the realisation of any
part of collateral provided to the bank or financial institution in a
credit transaction, if the bank or financial institution disposes of
equity interest, in excess of the limits imposed by this section, within
two years following its acquisition or such longer period as the
Bank may determine.
85. (1) A bank or financial institution may acquire an interest
in real property if the acquisition is necessary for—
(a) conducting business, making provision for future expansion
or providing housing for its senior officers and other
employees; or
(b) securing or satisfying a debt or other liability to it, which
is disposed of within two years or subsequently continued
with the prior written approval of the Bank.

Restriction
on lease or
other interest
in real
property

240

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) Abank or financial institution shall not, directly or indirectly,
without the prior written approval of the Bank and on such terms
and conditions as the Bank may prescribe—
(a) purchase, lease or acquire an interest in real property; or
(b) lease or make available any personal property owned by
the bank or financial institution in consideration of
periodicpayments, rent or other instalment payments.
(3) Nothing in this subsection shall prevent a bank or financial
institution from lending and taking title to personal property for the
purpose of satisfying a debt or obligation to a bank or financial
institution, if the lease or other arrangement is disposed of within
two years or subsequently continued with the prior written approval
of the Bank.
Limits,
restrictions
and
prohibition
on financial
business and
alternative
financial
services

86. (1) Subject to this Part, the Bank may adopt, vary or amend
the limits, restrictions and prohibitions with regard to the financial
business and alternative financial services.

Exemption
of alternative
financial
services

87. The Bank may, on application by a financial service
provider, in the prescribed manner and form, exempt that financial
service provider offering alternative financial services from some
provisions of this Part.

(2)

Despite subsection (1) the Bank may—

(a) establish lending and other limits, impose restrictions and
prohibitions on financial businesses and may prescribe
different limits for different categories of financial
businesses; and
(b) on application by a financial service provider, in the
prescribed manner and form, exempt a financial service
provider offering alternative financial services from some
provisions of this Part, in a prescribed manner and form.

PART VIII
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Annual
financial
statement

88. (1) A board shall ensure that proper books of account and
other records relating to the operations of the financial service
provider are kept.
(2) A board shall prepare, for each financial year, financial
statements, accounts and reports in accordance with international
accounting standards as recognised by the Zambia Institute of
Chartered Accountants and rules issued by the Bank in accordance
with this Act.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

241

(3) A financial service provider shall, not later than twentyone
days before the date of an annual general meeting, send to each
shareholder and to the Bank a copy of its audited financial statement
for the preceding financial year.
(4) A board shall, not more than three months after the close
of the financial year, send a copy of the audited financial statements
to the Bank, together with any report made by an external auditor,
including a management letter or other communication prepared in
accordance with internationally accepted standards as specified in
subsection (2).
(5) The Bank may, on receipt of a financial service provider’s
audited financial statement, as provided in subsection (5), direct
that a trilateral meeting be held by the Bank with a financial service
provider and the external auditor of the financial service provider,
subject to the Bank’s supervisory responsibilities that may have
arisen in the course of a statutory audit.
(6) Where a financial service provider fails to comply with
subsection (3), the annual general meeting shall be adjourned until
such time as the financial service provider complies with the
subsection.
89. (1) A board shall present to the shareholders, at an annual
general meeting, all statements, reports and information that are
required to be presented to shareholders at an annual general meeting
as provided in the Companies Act, 2017, including—
(a) a directors’ report, containing the following information:
(i) common enterprise and related party transactions;
(ii) risk management processes and practices;
(iii) disclosed directors’ interests; and
(iv) the existence of prohibited borrowings or lendings;
(b) an audited report of its financial statements for the financial
year;
(c) a list of subsidiaries, other than subsidiaries acquired on a
realisation of security, showing with respect to each
subsidiary—
(i) its name and the address of its head or principal
office;

Presentation
of annual
financial
statement to
shareholders
Act No. of
2017

242

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(ii) the book value in the aggregate of any shares of
the subsidiary that is beneficially owned by the
financial service provider and any other
subsidiaries of the financial service provider;
and
(iii) the percentage of the voting shares of the
subsidiary that is beneficially owned by the
financial service provider and other subsidiaries
of the financial service provider; and
(d) any information that may be provided in this Act or
prescribed by the Bank in accordance with this Act or
any other written law.
(2) Financial statements and reports, referred to in subsection
(1), shall be a true and accurate representation of the financial service
provider’s financial position as at the end of the financial year,
including the results of the operations and changes in the financial
position of the financial service provider for the financial year.
Reserve for
bad and
doubtful
debts

90. A financial service provider’s annual financial statements
shall comply with the regulatory statements, issued in accordance
with this Act, for creation or variation of appropriate reserves for
bad and doubtful debts.

Approval of
annual
financial
statements

91. (1) A board shall approve the annual financial statements
of the financial service provider.

Publication
of annual
financial
statements

92. (1) A financial service provider shall publish, in a newspaper
of general circulation in Zambia, its quarterly financial statement
and audited annual financial statements.

(2) The annual financial statements, approved in accordance
with subsection (1), shall be signed by at least two directors.

(2) The Bank shall prescribe the manner and form of publication
of the financial statements referred to in subsection (1).
(3) A financial service provider shall display, in a conspicuous
place in each branch, at all times when the branch is open for
business, a copy of the financial service provider’s quarterly and
audited annual financial statements.
Appointment
of external
auditor

93. (1) A financial service provider shall appoint, at the
beginning of each financial year, an external auditor.
(2) An external auditor, appointed in accordance with
subsection (1), shall be a member of the Zambia Institute of
Chartered Accountants, and meet such other conditions as the Bank
may prescribe.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

243

(3) The Bank shall prescribe term of appointment of an auditor
and an engagement partner.
(4) A financial service provider shall pay an external auditor
remuneration as agreed with the board.
(5) An external auditor of a financial service provider shall be
the external auditor of a subsidiary of the financial service provider.
(6) A person that contravenes this section commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one year, or to both.
(7) The Bank may exempt certain types of financial businesses
from the requirements of this section.
94. (1) An external auditor shall audit the financial statements
of a financial service provider and make a report to the shareholders
of the financial service provider and express an opinion, in
accordance with this Act, any other written law and standards
promulgated by the Zambia Institute of Chartered Accountants on
the—
(a) annual balance sheet, profit and loss account and other
financial statements required to be submitted by the
financial service provider in accordance with this Act;
and
(b) compliance of the financial service provider with the
requirements of this Act or other relevant written law,
with respect to the accounts.
(2) An external auditor who, in the course of carrying out duties,
as specified in subsection (1), finds that a financial service
provider—
(a) is insolvent or is likely to become insolvent; or
(b) has contravened a requirement of this Act, a regulation,
rule, guideline or regulatory statement issued in
accordance with this Act, or a condition imposed by the
financial service provider’s licence;
shall report the finding, in the prescribed manner and form, to the
Bank, within fourteen days of the finding.
(3) An external auditor that communicates in good faith with
the Bank on a matter to which this section applies, is not in breach
of a duty owed to a financial service provider.

Responsibilities
of external
auditor

244

No. 7 of 2017]

Information
by external
auditor to
Bank

Banking and Financial Services

95. (1) The Bank may, by notice to an external auditor of a
financial service provider, whether current or in the past, require
the external auditor to provide information about the financial service
provider, a subsidiary or an affiliate of the financial service provider.
(2) An external auditor who, being required to provide
information as provided in subsection (1)—
(a) fails, refuses or neglects to provide the information; or
(b) provides false or misleading information;
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.

Disqualification
of external
auditor

96. A financial service provider shall not appoint a person as
an external auditor of that financial provider if that person is—
(a) a director, senior officer or other employee of the financial
service provider or of any person associated or affiliated
with the financial service provider;
(b) an associate of a director or senior officer;
(c) a body corporate; or
(d) a person who personally, or through that person’s partner
or employee, regularly performs the duties of secretary
or book keeper to the financial service provider.

Access to
information
and auditor’s
report

97. (1) An external auditor of a financial service provider has
the right of access to all books, accounts and records of a financial
service provider and is entitled to require from its directors, senior
officers and agents such information and explanations that the
external auditor requires to perform the external auditor’s duties
and responsibilities as provided in this Act and any other relevant
law.
(2) A report made for the purposes of this Act by an external
auditor shall—
(a) express whether, in the external auditor’s opinion, the
financial service provider made available all information
necessary for the external auditor to comply with the
requirements of this Act or other relevant law;
(b) state whether, in the external auditor’s opinion, any of the
statements in the annual financial statement —

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

245

(i) is fully, fairly and properly drawn up;
(ii) exhibits a true and fair statement
of the financial service provider’s financial
condition; and
(iii) requires an explanation or information from the
board, senior officer or agent of the financial
service provider or a satisfactory response has
been received;
(c) state whether in the external auditor’s opinion the financial
service provider has complied with the provisions,
regulations, rules, regulatory statements specified in or
under this Act and any other relevant law; and
(d) state the transactions or conditions that have come to the
attention of the auditor affecting the wellbeing of the
financial service provider that, in the opinion of the
external auditor, are not satisfactory and require
rectification including—
(i) any transaction of the financial service provider
that has come to the attention of the external
auditor and which, in the opinion of the external
auditor, has not been within the powers of the
financial service provider or which was contrary
to this Act or any other law; and
(ii) a non-performing loan that is outstanding, has
been restructured or the terms of repayment
have been extended, if the principal amount of
the loan is five percent or more of the regulatory
capital of the financial service provider.
(3) A board shall submit a copy of the report of the external
auditor, together with a copy of the annual financial statement, to
the Bank and each shareholder of the financial service provider,
within a period of three months from the end of a financial year.
98. (1) The Bank may cause the dismissal of an external auditor
to a financial service provider for failure to perform duties and
responsibilities, in accordance with this Act, or auditing standards
approved by the Zambia Institute of Chartered Accountants.
(2) Where an external auditor to a financial service provider is
dismissed, in accordance with subsection (1), the financial service
provider shall appoint another external auditor, subject to meeting
the conditions prescribed by the Bank.

Termination
of
appointment
of external
auditor

246

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(3) Where a financial service provider fails to comply with
subsection (2), the Bank shall order the dismissal of the external
auditor.
Statement on
resignation
of external
auditor

99. Where an external auditor of a financial service provider
resigns, the external auditor shall prepare and deliver to the Bank,
a written statement specifying the reasons for the resignation, within
ten days after submission to the financial service provider of the
auditor’s resignation.

Termination
of
appointment
of external
auditor by
financial
service
provider

100. (1) Where a financial service provider terminates the
appointment of an external auditor, the financial service provider
shall submit to the Bank and the external auditor, within ten days of
the decision to terminate the appointment, a written statement setting
out the reasons for the termination.
(2) An external auditor may, within ten days of receiving the
statement referred to in subsection (1), submit to the Bank and the
financial service provider a written statement responding to the
reasons set out by the financial service provider.
PART IX
ANTI-COMPETITIVE ACTIVITIES AND CONSUMER PROTECTION

Collusive
conduct

101. (1) Subject to subsection (3), a financial service provider
shall not make an agreement or arrangement with another financial
service provider with respect to the—
(a) rate of interest to be levied on a deposit;
(b) rate of interest or charge levied on a credit facility;
(c) amount of a charge for the provision of a financial service;
(d) provision of, or refusal to provide, banking or financial
services to a person;
(e) division of markets by allocating customers; or
(f) provision of banking or financial services in a manner that
restricts competition in the financial sector.
(2) A financial service provider that contravenes subsection
(1) commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding three hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three years, or to both.
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to an agreement or
arrangement—

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

247

(a) for the performance of a banking or financial service by a
financial service provider to another;
(b) evidencing a syndication or agreement for the provision of
banking or financial services to a person by two or more
financial service providers;
(c) for the underwriting or distribution of security by a bank
or financial institution or a group of persons, including
a financial service provider; or
(d) for the exchange of statistics or audit information, the
development and use of systems, forms, methods,
procedures and standards, the use of common facilities,
joint research and the development or any matter
regarding the same.
102. (1) A financial service provider shall not compel a person
to contract for another service with the financial service provider
or another person as a condition for receiving a banking or financial
service from the financial service provider.

Collateral
contracts

(2) A financial service provider that contravenes subsection (1)
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or imprisonment
for a term not exceeding five years, or to both.
103. A financial service provider shall not compel a customer
to use the financial service provider’s choice of a supplier of any
service or goods.

Coercive
behaviour

104 (1) A financial service provider shall not harass, oppress
or abuse a person in the collection of a debt.

Misconduct
during debt
collection

(2) A financial service provider shall not use false, deceptive
or misleading representation or means when collecting a debt.
105. The Bank may prescribe the benchmark interest rate that
a financial service provider shall charge customers.

Determination
of
benchmark
base rate

106. (1) A financial service provider shall, at the time of opening
a new account for a customer, provide a customer with a written
statement of the—

Disclosure
of interest
rates and
charges

(a) charges for maintaining, and accessing funds on the
account;

248

No. 7

of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(b) interest, if any, to be paid to the customer by the financial
service provider; and
(c) manner in which the financial service provider shall inform
the customer of new charges or changes in the charges
or interest specified.
(2) A financial service provider that agrees to make a loan or
credit available to a person shall, before making the loan or credit,
disclose the cost of borrowing to the person in writing.
(3) The Minister, in consultation with the Bank, may prescribe
the manner and form, and content of information, required to be
disclosed by a financial service provider under this section.
Increase in
service
charges

107. A financial service provider shall, before introducing a
new charge, or increasing the rate of an existing charge for retail
customers or micro, small and medium scale enterprises, apply for
the prior written approval of the Bank.

Responsible
lending

108. (1) A financial service provider shall, before advancing a
credit facility to a customer, assess and determine the customer’s
ability to pay the credit, based on the customer’s current and expected
income, current obligations, employment status, other financial
resources or assets to be given as security.
(2) A financial service provider shall not advance a credit
facility to a customer whose total monthly debts due on outstanding
obligations, including amounts under credit facility, exceed a limit
prescribed by the Bank.
(3) A financial service provider that contravenes this section
commits an offence.

Prohibition
against
penal
interest

109. (1) A financial service provider shall not impose on a
borrower a charge or penalty as a result of the failure by the borrower
to repay or pay in accordance with the contract governing the loan
other than—
(a) interest on an overdue payment on a loan;
(b) legal costs incurred in collecting or attempting to collect a
payment on a loan; or
(c) costs, including legal costs, incurred in protecting or
realising the security on a loan.
(2) A financial service provider that contravenes subsection
(1) commits an offence.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

110. (1) A financial service provider shall recover the following
amounts from a borrower on a non-performing credit facility:
(a) the principal amount owing when the credit facility becomes
non-performing;
(b) any interest in arrears due in accordance with the credit
facility agreement but not exceeding the principal amount
owing when the loan becomes non-performing; and
(c) expenses incurred in the recovery of amounts owed by the
borrower.

249

Recoverable
amounts on
nonperforming
loan

(2) This section does not apply to interest awarded in terms of
a Court order or judgment and accruing after the making of the
order or judgment.
111. Subject to the Financial Intelligence Act, 2010, a financial
service provider shall maintain the confidentiality of information
obtained in the provision of a service to a customer and shall not
divulge any information except—
(a) in accordance with the express consent of a customer;
(b) in compliance with a court order;
(c) where the interest of the financial service provider requires
disclosure;
(d) where the information requested is customer identification
data required by another financial service provider for
the purpose of conducting a due diligence; or
(e) where the Bank, in the performance of its functions as
provided in this Act, so requests or directs.
112. (1) A financial service provider shall not engage in anticompetitive practices.
(2) A financial service provider that enters into an agreement,
or makes a decision or engages into a concerted practice whose
objective or effect is to prevent, restrict or distort competition to an
appreciable extent in the financial sector shall be considered to have
engaged in an unsafe and unsound practice.
113.

A financial service provider shall—

(a) establish and make available, in writing, to each customer,
in the portion of each branch that the public has access
to, procedures for dealing with complaints made by a
customer;

Data
protection
and
disclosure of
information
Act No. 46
of 2010

Prohibition
of anticompetitive
practice

Complaints
procedure for
customers

250

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(b) designate a senior officer or other employee to be a
customer service officer responsible for implementing
and administering the procedures specified in paragraph
(a); and
(c) create and maintain for two years, or such longer period
as the Bank may prescribe, a record stating the
complaints received, when and how they were dealt with
or disposed of.
Ombudsperson
for financial
service
providers

114. (1) The Bank may designate or appoint a suitably qualified
person as a Financial Ombudsperson to deal with matters relating
to consumer protection in banking and financial services under this
Act.
(2) The Bank may, prescribe the manner of dealing with
complaints against financial service providers by their customers.

Control of
advertisements

115. (1) The Bank may make rules in respect of the publication,
form and content of advertisements relating to a financial service
provider.
(2)

Rules made in accordance with subsection (1) may—

(a) prohibit the publication of advertisements of any
description, whether by reference to their contents, to
the persons by whom they are published or otherwise;
(b) make provision as to the matters which should or should
not be included in such advertisements;
(c) provide for any exemptions from any requirement imposed
by this Act; and
(d) provide for offences and penalties for the breach of any
requirement of the rules.
(3) The Bank shall give such directives to the person who has
published or caused to be published the advertisement as it considers
appropriate in the circumstances, where it appears to the Bank that
an advertisement made in accordance with this section—
(a) fails to comply with any requirement imposed in the rules
made in terms of this section; or
(b) is false or misleading.
(4)

A directive given, in terms of subsection (1), may require—

(a) a person to modify the advertisement, in whole or in part;
or
(b) the publication of the advertisement to cease.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

251

(5) Nothing in this section shall prejudice any remedy that an
aggrieved person may have against a person who published or caused
to be published an advertisement contrary to the requirements of
the rules made in accordance with this section.
(6) A person who contravenes this section commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand penalty units or imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years, or to both.
116. (1) Afinancial service provider shall not engage in an unfair
business practices.
(2) For purposes of this section, “unfair business practice”
means—

Prohibition
of unfair
business
practices

(a) a practice that is likely to mislead consumers in making
decisions;
(b) a practice that compromises the standard of honesty and
good faith which a financial service provider can
reasonably be expected to meet; or
(c) a practice which places pressure on consumers and distorts
their decisions, by use of harassment or coercion.
117. (1) A financial service provider shall not impose a charge
or penalty on a borrower for making a prepayment of the principal
or an instalment of the principal before its due date where—

Prohibition
of charges
on
prepayment

(a) the amount of repayment exceeds an amount to be
determined by the Bank or extinguishes the debt;
(b) a loan is made to a natural person; and
(c) the loan is not secured by a mortgage on real property.
(2) A financial service provider that contravenes subsection
(1) commits an offence.
118. (1) An unfair term in a contract concluded with a customer
by a financial service provider shall not be binding on the customer.
(2)

A contractual term shall be regarded as unfair if—

Unfair
contract
terms

(a) it has not been individually negotiated; and
(b) contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a
significant imbalance in the parties’ rights and obligations
arising under the contract, to the detriment of the
customer.
119. The provisions of this Part are without prejudice to any
other law in force on the promotion of competition, consumer
protection and fair trade.

Recognition
of other laws

252

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

PART X
INSOLVENCY, DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION OF FINANCIAL
SERVICE PROVIDERS
Acceptance
of deposits
by insolvent
financial
service
providers
Act No. of
2017

120. (1) Despite the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, or any
other law, an insolvent financial service provider shall not—
(a) receive deposits; or
(b) enter into any new, or continue to conduct existing, banking
or financial service business, except that which is
necessary or incidental to the orderly realisation,
conservation and preservation of the assets of a financial
service provider.
(2) A transaction with a depositor or a creditor and a settlement
in a netting or gross settlement arrangement in accordance with a
system of settlement approved by the Bank, or provided for in any
other law shall not be treated as prohibited in accordance with
subsection (1) by reason only that the insolvency transaction or
settlement took place prior to—
(a) a resolution to liquidate the financial service provider; or
(b) the appointment of a receiver or the taking possession of
the financial service provider by the Bank.
(3) A director, senior officer or other employee of a financial
service provider who knows or, in the proper performance of duties,
could reasonably be expected to know of the insolvency of the
financial service provider and who causes or permits any act contrary
to this section, commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction,
to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to both.

Resolution to
voluntarily
wind-up or
dissolve
financial
service
provider
Act No. of
2017

121. (1) A financial service provider shall not, except with the
written approval of the Bank, pass a resolution for the voluntary
winding-up or dissolution of the financial service provider in
accordance with the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, or any other
law.
(2) A financial service provider seeking the approval of the
Bank for voluntary winding-up or dissolution, in accordance with
subsection (1), shall submit—
(a) a certified copy of the resolution; and

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

253

(b) an audited declaration of solvency by the directors to which
shall be attached a statement of affairs of the financial
service provider showing the—
(i) assets and total amount expected to be realised
therefrom;
(ii) liabilities; and
(iii) estimated expenses of the winding-up, made up
to the latest practicable date before the resolution
to wind-up was made.
(3) The Bank shall approve a voluntary winding- up if the Bank
is satisfied that the financial service provider is solvent and has
sufficient liquid assets to repay its depositors and all its other
creditors in full and without delay.
(4) Where a bank or financial institution passes a resolution
for voluntary winding-up or dissolution, the bank or financial
institution shall record the date, hour and minute of the passing of
the resolution.
(5) A director, senior officer or other employee of a financial
service provider who makes a false declaration, causes or permits
any false declaration to be made, contrary to subsection (2), commits
an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years, or to both.
122. (1) If a financial service provider receives approval from
the Bank for a voluntary windingup or dissolution, the financial
service provider shall—
(a) surrender its licence to the Bank, within seven days of
receipt of the approval, and shall cease to do business
and may exercise its powers only to the extent necessary
to effect its orderly windingup or dissolution in
accordance with the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017,
and this Act; and
(b) repay in full its depositors and other creditors.
(2) A director, senior officer or other employee of a financial
service provider who knows or, in the proper performance of duties,
could reasonably be expected to know of the insolvency of the
institution and who causes or permits any act contrary to this section,
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding five years, or to both.

Duties of
financial
service
provider on
voluntary
winding- up
or
dissolution
Act No. of
2017

254

No. 7 of 2017]

Notice of
voluntary
winding-up
or
dissolution

Banking and Financial Services

123. (1) A financial service provider shall, within fourteen days
after receiving approval for a voluntary winding-up or dissolution,
by registered mail, or in the prescribed manner and form notify—
(a) every depositor and creditor of the financial service
provider of the intended voluntary winding-up or
dissolution; and
(b) a person entitled to funds or property held by the financial
service provider as a trustee, fiduciary, lessor of a
safe-keeping facility or bailee, of the proposed
winding-up or dissolution.
(2) A notice, for the purposes of subsection (1), shall include
such information as the Bank may specify.
(3) A copy of a notice, specified in subsection (1), shall be kept
and displayed in a conspicuous place in the public part of each
branch and the financial service provider shall cause the notice to
be published in the Gazette and in a newspaper of general circulation
or any other media in Zambia.

Rights of
depositors
and creditors

124. (1) An approval by the Bank for the voluntary windingup or dissolution of a financial service provider as provided in this
Part, shall not prejudice the right of a depositor or creditor to
payment in full, or to the return of funds or property held, by the
financial service provider.
(2) All lawful claims shall be paid promptly and all funds and
other property held by the financial service provider shall be returned
to the rightful owners within such maximum period as the Bank
may direct in writing.

Distribution
of assets on
voluntary
winding- up
or
dissolution
Act No. of
2017

125. (1) Where the Bank considers that a financial service
provider has discharged all the obligations specified in this Act, the
remainder of its property shall be distributed to the shareholders, in
accordance with the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, and this Act.
(2) A distribution shall not be made, in accordance with
subsection (1), before—
(a) all claims of depositors and other creditors have been paid
in full;
(b) in the case of a disputed claim, the financial service provider
has turned over to the Bank, sufficient funds to meet
any liability that may be judicially determined; and

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

255

(c) uncollected funds, payable to a depositor or creditor, have
been turned over to the Bank to be dealt with as unclaimed
funds in accordance with this Act.
126. The Bank may take possession of the financial service
provider being voluntarily wound-up or dissolved, if the Bank
subsequently finds out that—
(a) the assets of a financial service provider are not sufficient
to fully discharge all obligations; or
(b) completion of the winding-up or dissolution has been
unduly delayed.
127. (1) Despite the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, or any
other law, the Bank may order the compulsory winding-up or
dissolution of a financial service provider and shall record the date,
hour and minute that the order shall take effect.
(2) Within seven days of making an order, in accordance with
subsection (1), the Bank shall, in the prescribed manner and form,
notify each director, shareholder, depositor, creditor and any other
interested party of the order.

Powers of
Bank where
assets
insufficient
or
completion
unduly
delayed

Powers of
Bank in
compulsory
winding-up
or
dissolution
Act No. of
2017

(3) The persons notified, in accordance with subsection (2),
may within thirty days of being notified file an appeal against the
order to the Court, which shall state the grounds for the objection
or appeal.
(4) The Court shall render a decision on an appeal, made in
accordance with subsection (3 ), within seven days of the appeal
being heard and may make any order the Court considers just in the
circumstances.
128. (1) In effecting a compulsory winding-up or dissolution
of the financial service provider, in accordance with this Act the
Bank may, in addition to any other powers, exercise the powers of
the financial service provider concerned.
(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the Bank
as liquidator of a financial service provider shall have the power to—
(a) bring, carry on or defend an action or legal proceedings
in the name and on behalf of the financial service
provider; and
(b) carry on the business of the financial service provider only
for the beneficial winding-up or dissolution of the
financial service provider.

Powers of
liquidator

256

No. 7 of 2017]

Act No. of
2017

Banking and Financial Services

(3) Despite the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, and any other
relevant written law, the Bank shall, after a decision to compulsorily
windup or dissolve a financial service provider—
(a) take all necessary steps to terminate safe custody functions
performed by the financial service provider and shall
return to each owner all assets and property held by the
financial service provider as a bailee in relation to the
owner;
(b) cause to be made available at each branch for collection
by each depositor, creditor, safecustodyservices customer
and bailor of property held by the financial service
provider, a customer’s statement of the nature and
amount for which each one’s claim is shown in the
financial service provider’s records, and shall cause to
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
Zambia, a notice informing all such persons of the
availability for collection of the customer statement at
their respective branches.
(4) Acustomer’s statement, made in accordance with subsection
(3), shall state that—
(a) a claim by the depositor or creditor shall be filed with the
Bank within sixty days from the date of the customer’s
statement being made available; and
(b) safe-custody services customers and bailors shall be
required to withdraw their property within sixty days
from the date of the customer’s statement being made
available.
(5) Any property held in safecustody, on the premises of the
bank or financial institution, that has not been withdrawn before
the date specified in the customer’s statement shall be taken into
possession by the Bank in the manner prescribed by the Bank.
(6) Any unclaimed funds and property held by the bank or
financial institution as a bailee, together with inventories that have
not been withdrawn, in accordance with this section, shall be
unclaimed funds for the purposes of this Act and shall be dealt with
accordingly.

Immunity of
Bank
against
depositor or
creditor
claims

129. Nothing in this Part shall be taken to impute liability on
the Bank or place an obligation on the Bank to meet the claims of
a depositor or creditor of a financial service provider that has been
wound-up or dissolved.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

130. The Bank shall, within six months after the last day
specified in a customer’s statement, for the purpose of the filing of
claims as provided in section 128 (4) (a)—

257

Limitation
on filing of
claims

(a) defer payment of any claim that is out of time;
(b) determine the amount, if any, owing to each known
depositor or creditor and the priority class of the claim
in accordance with this Part;
(c) file into Court, a liquidation schedule showing the steps
that the Bank proposes to take;
(d) reject any claim that appears to be of doubtful validity
and notify, in the prescribed manner and form, each
person whose claim has not been allowed in full; and
(e) publish once a week for three consecutive weeks, in the
Gazette, a newspaper of general circulation, or in other
media in Zambia where the financial service provider
had a branch, a notice of the date and place where the
liquidation schedule is available for inspection, and the
date, not earlier than thirty days after the date of the
third publication of the notice, on which the Bank or
person appointed shall file the liquidation schedule into
Court.
131. (1) Within twenty days after the filing of a liquidation
schedule, as specified in section 130 (c), a depositor, creditor or
owner of a financial service provider, and any other interested party,
may file with the Court an objection to any step proposed.

Objection to
liquidation
schedule

(2) The Court shall consider an objection, filed in accordance
with subsection (1), and may—
(a) order that appropriate modification of the schedule be
made; or
(b) set aside the objection.
(3) The Bank may, after the filing of the liquidation schedule,
as specified in section 130 (c), make partial distribution to the holders
of undisputed claims or claims that have been allowed by the Court,
on condition that a proper reserve account is established for the
payment of disputed claims.
132. (1) Despite the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, or any
other written law, in any compulsory winding-up or dissolution of
a financial service provider the following shall be paid in priority
to all other debts in the order set:

Priority of
creditors
Act No. of
2017

258

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(a) expenses incurred in the process of compulsory winding- up
or dissolution;
(b) depositors;
(c) taxes and rates due;
(d) wages and salaries of employees of the financial service
provider for a period of three months;
(e) charges and assessments due to the Bank; or
(f) other claims against the financial service provider in such
order of priority as the Court may determine on
application by the Bank.
(2) After payment of all claims submitted and accepted, the
remaining claims with interest that are not submitted within the
time allowed in accordance with this Part shall be paid, in the order
of priority of their submission and at a rate to be fixed by the Bank.
(3) If the amount available for payment for any class of claims,
referred to in subsections (1) and (2), is insufficient to provide
payment in full, the claims within a class shall abate in equal
proportions and for the purposes of this section each paragraph of
subsection (1) constitutes a separate class of claims and the claims
referred to subsection (2) constitute another separate class of claims.
(4) If the amount available for payment for any class of claims,
referred to in subsection (1) is insufficient to provide payment in
full, the claims shall abate in equal proportions.
(5) The Bank shall establish a scheme for the protection of
depositors.
Undistributed
funds

133. Any undistributed funds remaining after a final
distribution, as provided for in this Part, shall be taken into
possession and held by the Bank and subsequently dealt with in
accordance with this Act.

Final
distribution
in
compulsory
winding-up
or
dissolution

134. Any assets remaining after all claims have been paid in a
compulsory winding-up or dissolution of a financial service provider,
shall be distributed among the shareholders.

Restriction
of action by
third parties
Act No. of
2017

135. Despite the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, or any other
written law to the contrary, a person shall not commence proceedings
for the winding-up or dissolution of a financial service provider,
except where the proceedings are commenced by a financial service
provider in accordance with this Part.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7

of 2017

136. Despite this Part, where a financial business becomes
insolvent, unless the Bank determines that the winding-up or
dissolution shall be proceeded with in accordance with this Part,
the Corporate Insolvency Act, 2017, shall apply.
PART XI
COMPLAINTS AND APPEALS PROCESS
137. (1) Where the Bank makes a decision in accordance with
this Act, the Bank shall, by notice in writing—
(a) inform the person affected by the decision of the reasons
for the decision; and

259

Power of
Bank in
relation to
insolvent
financial
business
Act No. of
2017

Reasons for
decisions
and right to
be heard

(b) invite the person so affected to make written
representations, against the decision of the Bank, within
a time stated in the notice.
(2) The Bank may, on receipt of any representations made in
accordance with subsection (1)(b), reaffirm, revoke or vary its Right
appeal
decision and notify the person accordingly.

of

(3) A decision of the Bank, made in accordance with subsection
(1), shall remain in force unless reversed by the Bank or set aside
by a tribunal on appeal or by the Court.
138. A person aggrieved by a decision of the Bank may, within
seven days of receipt of the decision, notify the Bank and the
Minister, in the prescribed manner and form, of the person’s intention
to appeal to the tribunal against the decision.
139. (1) The Minister shall, within thirty days after receipt of a
notice made in accordance with section 138, constitute and convene
a tribunal.
(2) The tribunal shall consist of the following members
appointed by the Minister—
(a) a chairperson, who shall be a person qualified to be
appointed as a Judge of the Court; and
(b) two other members with knowledge and experience in law,
banking and finance, commerce or accountancy.
(3) The members of a tribunal shall be appointed on such terms
and conditions as maybe specified in their letters of appointment.

Appointment
and
convening of
tribunal

260

No. 7

Powers of
tribunal

of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

140. (1) A tribunal shall determine an appeal on its merits,
taking into account this Act and any other relevant written law.
(2) A tribunal may determine its own procedure and shall not
be bound by the rules of evidence.
(3) A tribunal shall afford the appellant the right to appear
personally or be represented by a practitioner or an agent.

Decisions of
tribunal

141. (1) A tribunal may confirm, vary or quash the decision of
the Bank on the matter before the tribunal.
(2) A decision of a tribunal, except on a point of law, is final
and binding on the parties to the appeal.
(3) An appeal against a decision of a tribunal shall lie to the
Court.
PART XII
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Investigations

142. (1) Where the Bank has reason to believe that a person is
carrying on banking or financial business or providing financial
services without a licence, contrary to the conditions of a licence or
this Act, rules and regulations, the Bank shall, by its employees or
agents, enter the premises on which the business is being conducted
or services provided, to ascertain the facts of the matter and may
access and examine the books, accounts and records of that person.
(2) A person who refuses or fails to make available for
examination any document or provide any information requested
for purposes of or during an investigation, as provided in subsection
(1), commits an offence, and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or to both.

Access to
documents

143. (1) Subject to this section, any person may, on request,
review or copy any document lodged with the Bank in terms of this
Act or any regulations or rules made in accordance with this Act.
(2) The Bank may, by rules, specify procedures for making
requests for access, as provided in subsection (1), and the terms
and fees to be paid for purposes of such access.
(3) The Bank may refuse to authorise a document to be
reviewed or copied, in whole or part, where it determines that
information in the document is—

Banking and Financial Services

[No.

7 of 2017

261

(a) confidential to the person lodging the document and has a
real commercial value to the person that would be
seriously and unreasonably prejudiced if the information
were to be made generally available; or
(b) personal information about a person and it is in the public
interest that the information should not be generally
available.
144. (1) Where this Act or any rules and regulations, made in
accordance with this Act, provide that a person commits an offence
where the person does a particular act, the offence is deemed to
have been committed, even where the act is done partly outside
Zambia.

Offences
committed
partly in
and partly
out of
Zambia

(2) Where this Act or any regulations and rules, made in
accordance with this Act, provide that a person commits an offence
where the person does two or more particular acts, the offence is
deemed to have been committed, even if some of those acts are
done outside Zambia.
145.

Where in accordance with this Act —

(a) an act is required to be done within a particular period or
before a particular time and the obligation to do the act
continues after the period has ended or the time has
passed; or

Continuing
acts or
offences

(b) failure or refusal to comply with the provision is an offence
and such failure continues;
the person commits a separate offence for each day on which the
failure or refusal continues and is liable to an administrative penalty
for each day on which the failure or refusal continues or, upon
conviction, to a penalty prescribed by the Minister, by statutory
instrument, for each day that the offence continues.
146. (1) A person who is convicted of an offence, in accordance
with this Act, shall have that person’s licence or authorisation
cancelled, as the case may be, and may not be licensed or authorised
in terms of this Act, for a period determined by the Bank, and may
be barred from participating, in any manner, in the provision of a
banking or financial service on such terms and conditions as the
Bank may determine.
(2) The Bank may, on representation, review the bar as specified
in subsection (1) and may, where an applicant shows good cause,
reduce the period determined in accordance with subsection (1).

Actions by
Bank on
conviction
for offence

262

No. 7

of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

Use of word
“bank”

147. A person, other than a bank, shall not, without the written
approval of the Bank, use the word “bank”, or any of its derivatives
in any language, or any other word or symbol indicating the
transaction of banking business, in its name or in any prospectus,
advertisement or statement of any kind published or made to describe
its business in Zambia.

Restriction on
use of name to
indicate
banking or
financial
business or
financial
service
provider

148. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a person carrying on a
business, unless the person is licenced as a financial service provider,
shall not use any name which indicates or may reasonably be
understood to indicate, whether in English or other language, that
the business is being operated by a financial service provider or
that it is carrying on banking or financial business.
(2) A person shall not falsely represent to the public or any
member of the public that the person—
(a) holds a licence to conduct any banking business or provide
financial services; or
(b) is licensed to conduct any financial business of any kind.
(3) Any person acting contrary to this section commits an
offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years, or to both.
(4)

Subsection (1) shall not—

(a) prohibit the use of that kind of name by a company or
other entity incorporated or otherwise established outside
Zambia and which has no permanent place of business
in Zambia for the purposes of soliciting business or
advertising its business in Zambia;
(b) apply to—
(i) a regional or international financial service provider
whose membership consists partly or wholly of
member States; or
(ii) such other person as the Minister may, by statutory
instrument, exempt.
(5) An authority which, in accordance with any other written
law, is responsible for the registration of companies or business
names shall not register a company or a name of a business that
would be in contravention of subsection (1).

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

263

(6) Where a company or the name of a business is already
registered in a style that is prohibited by subsection (1), the Bank
shall notify the authority responsible for the registration of the
company or business name to direct the person or company to alter
or modify the name so as to comply with subsection (1).
149. (1) A transaction entered into, in contravention of this
Act, by a financial service provider, shall not be void or ineffective
by reason only of the contravention, and shall not be voidable at the
instance of the financial service provider, unless the Court orders
otherwise.

Validity of
certain acts
by financial
service
provider

(2) Subject to a financial service provider’s articles of
association, it shall not be necessary for a financial service provider
to pass a resolution in order to exercise any power conferred by
this Act.
150. (1) Where the Bank considers that an officer, director or
shareholder, past or present, of a financial service provider, has
any information relating to the operations of the financial service
provider which the Bank considers necessary for the performance
of its supervisory functions, the Bank may, in the prescribed manner,
summon that officer, director or shareholder, for an examination.

Power to
summon
officers,
directors and
shareholders

(2) A person who, when summoned by the Bank, in accordance
with subsection (1)—
(a) fails without reasonable excuse to appear before the Bank
for the examination;
(b) withholds information; or
(c) provides information which is false in any material
particular;
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two years or to both.
151. (1) If in the exercise of any of its powers, performance of
its functions or the discharge of its duties as provided in this Act, or
in accordance with any other written law, the Bank requires any
information from a financial service provider, any other person
engaged in the provision of banking or financial services, a company
affiliated, associated, holding or subsidiary company or any person
that controls a financial service provider, on any matter relating to
the affairs or business of the financial service provider, person or
company, the financial service provider, person or company, shall
submit the information to the Bank.

Submission
of
information
and
documents
to Bank

264

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) A financial service provider required to furnish or supply
a document to the Bank shall, in the case of a document prepared
by the financial service provider, the form of which has not been
prescribed by the Bank, ensure that the document is signed by the
chief executive officer and the chief financial officer or a person
authorised by the financial service provider.
Alternative
financial
services

152. (1) The Bank may authorise a financial service provider
to provide alternative financial services.
(2) The Bank shall prescribe the rules for the provision of
alternative financial services.

Publication
of
information

153. (1) Where the Bank considers a publication to be necessary
or appropriate, the Bank may publish, in whole or in part, any
information or data furnished in accordance with this Act.
(2) The Bank shall not reveal to a person information regarding
the affairs of a customer of a financial service provider that was
obtained in the performance of the Bank‘s functions, as provided in
this Act, unless lawfully required to do so.

Extension of
time limits

154. The Bank may, at the request of a financial service provider
or other interested person, extend any period within which a financial
service provider is obliged to furnish any document or information
in accordance with this Act.

False
document

155. A person who issues or takes part in the issuance of a
document, referred to in this Act, which is false in any material
particular, commits an offence and is be liable, upon conviction, to
a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both.

Immunity of
officer, agent
or employee
of Bank

156. An action or other proceeding shall not lie or be instituted
against an officer, agent or employee of the Bank in respect of any
act done or omitted to be done by that officer, agent or employee in
good faith in the exercise or performance, of any powers, functions
or duties conferred by or in accordance with this Act.

Money
circulation
schemes

157. (1) A person shall not—
(a) conduct, or participate in, a money circulation scheme; or
(b) issue a notice, circular, prospectus, proposal or other
document inviting the public to subscribe to a money
circulation scheme.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to an administrative
penalty as specified in this Part.

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7

of 2017

158. (1) Collateral that is held by the Bank on behalf of a
clearing house or a payment system for the purpose of settling the
obligations of a financial service provider, which is a member of
the clearing house or payment system, shall be utilised for that
purpose by the Bank in accordance with the terms and conditions
approved by the Bank and shall not be subject to any claim.

265

Utilisation
of collateral
for
settlement of
certain
obligations

(2) A certificate, issued by the Bank, certifying that the
collateral or any part thereof has been utilised to meet the obligations
of the clearing house or payment system shall be prima facie
evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.
(3) In the case of a financial service provider in respect of
which the winding up, dissolution or liquidation has commenced in
accordance with this Act, the balance of the collateral, after the
collateral has been utilised in accordance with subsection (1), shall
be dealt with in accordance with Part X.
159.

A financial service provider shall —

(a) maintain a special reserve account, with an amount that
the board considers adequate, which shall be reserved
exclusively for making good any loss resulting from the
negligence or dishonesty of any director, chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, manager or other employee
of the financial service provider;
(b) insure itself against loss, to an amount that the board
considers adequate; or
(c) undertake a commitment that the Bank may consider
acceptable for the purpose of this section.
160. (1) This section applies to—
(a) a demand, savings or matured time deposit, together with
interest or dividend thereon, excluding any charges that
may lawfully be withheld, in respect of which the owner
has not, within the last ten years—
(i) increased or decreased the amount of the deposit,
or presented identification documents with
evidence of the deposit crediting the interest or
dividends;
(ii) corresponded in writing with the bank or financial
institution; or

Special
reserve or
liability
insurance

Unclaimed
funds and
personal
property

266

No. 7

of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(iii) indicated an interest in the deposit as evidenced
by a memorandum on file with the bank or
financial institution;
(b) funds paid toward the purchase of a share or other interest
in a security issued by a financial service provider and
any interest or dividends relating thereto, excluding any
charges that may lawfully be withheld, in respect of
which the owner has not, within the last ten years—
(i) increased or decreased the amount of the funds or
deposit;
(ii) corresponded in writing with the bank or financial
institution; or
(iii) otherwise indicated an interest in the funds as
evidenced by a memorandum in the records of
the financial service provider; and
(c) funds or other personal property, removed from a safe
deposit box or any other safe-keeping facility on which
the lease or rental period has expired due to the
nonpayment of rental charges or by reason of some other
default by the lessee, or surplus amounts arising from
the sale of the property thereof in accordance with any
other written law, that have been unclaimed by the owner
for more than ten years from the date on which the lease
or rental period expired.
(2) Any of the funds or personal property, specified in
subsection (1) (a) (b) or (c), shall be presumed to be abandoned on
the expiration of the periods specified in that subsection, if the person
that owns the funds or personal property fails to respond to a notice
in writing, sent by the financial service provider by prepaid registered
post, to the last known address of the person in the records of the
financial service provider.
(3) A financial service provider holding funds or personal
property presumed abandoned under this section shall report to the
Bank on the amount and nature of such funds or property, in such
form and at such time as may be prescribed by the Bank, and shall
pay such funds or relinquish the property to the Bank upon expiration
of the time provided in this section for the presumption of
abandonment to arise.
(4) The financial service provider shall retain records and
inventory of funds paid or property relinquished in accordance with
subsection (3).

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 2017

267

(5) A person whose funds have been paid or whose property
has been relinquished to the Bank, in accordance with this section,
may claim the funds from the Bank within a period of six years
from the date of receipt of the funds or the property by the Bank.
(6) An action to recover, or other action in respect of, any funds
or property presumed abandoned and paid in or relinquished in
accordance with this section, may not be brought against the paying
bank or against the Bank after the sixth year following payment or
relinquishment to the Bank.
(7) Where unclaimed funds or property are not claimed after
the expiration of the period referred to in subsection (5), the funds
shall vest in the State.
161. The Bank may by rules, and on such terms and conditions
as it may determine, delegate its licensing, or supervisory powers
specified in this Act to an agent.

Delegated
supervision

162. The Bank may, on such terms and conditions as it may
prescribe, exempt any financial service provider from any of the
provisions of this Act and may, in like manner, provide for the
variation or revocation of any exemption granted.

Exemptions

163. A person that commits an offence in terms of this Act for
which a penalty is not specificied is liable, upon conviction, to a
fine not exceeding two hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both.

General
penalty

164. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body
corporate or unincorporated body, and the director, manager or
shareholder of that body is suspected to have committed the offence
and is charged of that offence, that director, manager or shareholder
of the body corporate or unincorporated body is liable, upon
conviction, to the penalty specified for the offence, unless the director
or manager proves to the satisfaction of the court that the act
constituting the offence was done without the knowledge, consent
or connivance of the director or manager or that the director or
manager took reasonable steps to prevent the commission of the
offence.

Offences by
body
corporate or
unincoporated
body

165. (1) Where the Bank is satisfied, after due investigation, or
where a person admits that the person has committed an offence in
terms of this Act or regulations or rules made in accordance with
this Act, the Bank may compound the offence and impose such an
administrative penalty, as may be prescribed.

Administrative
penalties

268

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(2) If a person, on whom an administrative penalty is imposed,
in accordance with this section, fails to pay the penalty within the
time ordered by the Bank, the Bank may, recover the penalty by
action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
Industry
reports

166. (1) The Bank shall, within six months from the 1st day of
January of each year, submit an industry report, to the Minister on
the performance of the financial service providers for the twelve
months ending on the preceding 31st December.
(2) The Minister shall, not later than thirty days after the first
sitting of the National Assembly next after receipt of the report
referred to in subsection (1), lay the report before the National
Assembly.

Regulatory
statements

Rules

167. (1) The Bank may issue and publish regulatory statements.
(2) The Bank may impose an administrative penalty on a
financial service provider that contravenes a regulatory statement.
168. (1) The Bank may, by statutory instrument, make rules
for or with respect to any matter that by this Act is required or
permitted to be prescribed by the Bank, or that is necessary to be
prescribed for purposes of carrying out or giving effect to this Act.
(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), rules made
under subsection (1) may make provision for—
(a) the conduct of business by financial service providers and
their representatives;
(b) matters incidental to the licensing of any financial service
providers in accordance with this Act;
(c) the class of persons in relation to whom, and the manner
and circumstances inwhich, financial service providers
may conduct or provide banking or financial services;
(d) the correction of any errors in any register or record kept
in accordance with this Act;
(e) particulars to be recorded for the purposes of this Act, in
relation to accounts of financial service providers;
(f) the lodgement of auditor’s reports and the information to
be contained in the auditor’s report;
(g) the operating hours for financial service providers;
(h) the lodgement by financial service providers of annual
financial statements;

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7

of 2017

(i) the exemption, on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed, of any financial service providers from any
specified provision of this Act or any rule made in
accordance with this Act, and the revocation of any
such exemption or the modification of any such terms
or conditions;
(j) administrative penalties to be imposed;
(k) the type of business that the Bank considers as constituting
a banking or financial service;
(l) maintenance of the confidentiality of customers of financial
service providers;
(m) information and the matters to be displayed on business
stationery of financial service providers;
(n) insurance by financial service providers against negligence
or default;
(o) the practice and conduct of share registers and other
registers that are to be kept by financial service providers
in accordance with this Act;
(p) the resolution of disputes among financial service
providers;
(q) the making of annual or other regulatory returns to the
Bank by financial service providers;
(r) mandatory disclosures and registration of interests in
financial service providers;
(s) determination of fit and proper test for the purposes of this
Act;
(t) antimoney laundering and countering the financing of
terrorism by financial service providers; and
(u) any saving or transitional provisions the Bank considers
necessary or convenient to be made in consequence of
the enactment of this Act and the repealed Act.
(3) The Bank may, by statutory instrument, make other rules
to provide for—
(a) the contents, form and issue of a prospectus, financial
statements, annual reports and other documents required
or provided for in this Act;
(b) requirements for the display and use of unique numbers
allocated for licences;

269

270

No. 7 of 2017]

Banking and Financial Services

(c) requirements for transactions, including requirements
prohibiting or restricting a licensed company from
commencing or carrying out business;
(d) the formulation and publication of codes of conduct for
financial service providers, officers and employees;
(e) requirements for financial service providers to make reports
to the Bank, either regularly or on the occurrence of
specified events or circumstances;
(f) requirements for contents, publicationand dissemination
of reports to the Bank by—
(i) financial service providers; and
(ii) officers and former officers of financial service
providers;
(g) prudential rules, including rules as to capital adequacy,
assets and other resources for financial service providers;
(h) disclosures to be made by financial service providers;
(i) keeping of books and records by financial service providers;
(j) the transfer of business, contracts or other engagements of
a financial service provider on insolvency or windingup;
(k) the taking of fees and the levying of charges;
(l) the criteria for declaration as publicly traded companies;
and
(m) the effective administration and implementation of this
Act.
(4) The Bank may issue rules prescribing the segregation and
safe custody of customer moneys or other property.
Regulations

169. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Bank,
make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to the provisions
of this Act.
(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), regulations
made in accordance with subsection (1) may—
(a) prescribe fees or charges payable in respect of any matter
arising under, provided for, or authorised by, this Act;
(b) prescribe offences and penalties not exceeding five hundred
thousand penalty units or imprisonment for a period not
exceeding five years, or both;

Banking and Financial Services

[No. 7 of 017

271

(c) prescribe the forms for applications, licences, approvals,
registers, notices, orders and other documents required
for the purposes of this Act;
(d) prescribe the information to be given in returns and other
documents delivered or made for the purposes of this
Act;
(e) provide the procedure for the service of notices, orders
and documents as specified in this Act and the times at
which they shall be considered to have been served; and
(f) prescribe the procedure for objections, for purposes of this
Act, and the making, consideration, hearing and
determination of objections and appeals.
170. The Banking and Financial Services Act, 1994 is repealed.

Repeal of
Cap. 387

171. (1) Despite the repeal under section 170—

Savings and
transitional
provisions

(a) a financial service provider or a representative office that
was, immediately before the commencement of this Act,
licensed or deemed to be licensed in accordance with the
repealedAct, shall be deemed to be the holder of a licence
granted in accordance with this Act, and shall be subject
to the same limitations and conditions attached to its
licensing;
(b) any application pending, in accordance with the repealed
Act, shall be deemed to have been made in accordance
with the corresponding provisions of this Act, and shall
be dealt with in accordance with this Act;
(c) any right or benefit accruing, or liability incurred, in
accordance with the repealed Act, shall continue in
accordance with and subject to this Act; and
(d) any order, notice or direction made orgiven and in force,
in accordance with the repealed Act, shall, unless
inconsistent to this Act, continue in force until revoked
in a manner specified in this Act.
(2) The Minister may, by statutory instrument, make such other
savings and transitional provisions as may be considered just or
expedient for a smooth transition from the structures, requirements
and forms provided for in the repealed Act.

272

No. 7 of 2017]

